associated-press
ATLANTA (AP)  Democrats chose former Labor Secretary Tom Perez as their new national chairman Saturday over a liberal Minnesota congressman, capping a divisive campaign that reflected the depths of the party's electoral failures as well as the energy from resistance to President Donald Trump.Perez, the first Latino to hold the post, edged Rep. Keith Ellison in the second round of voting by Democratic National Committee members gathered in Atlanta. The new chairman must rebuild a party that in the last decade has lost about 1,000 elected posts from the White House to Congress to the 50 statehouses, a power deficit Democrats have not seen nationally in 90 years.Republicans control the White House, Congress and 33 governorships, while the GOP is one Senate confirmation from a conservative majority on the Supreme Court. Despite President Barack Obama's personal electoral successes, the party suffered crushing defeats, losing the House majority in 2010 and the Senate in 2014.The son of Dominican immigrants, Perez comes to the job with a demonstrably liberal record as a civil rights attorney and backer of organized labor, but he carried the establishment label as a Maryland resident who's spent years in the Washington orbit, working in the Justice Department and ultimately as an Obama Cabinet officer.Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi of California will remain the highest ranking Democrats in Washington. But Perez must now join with Schumer and Pelosi as part cheerleader, part fundraiser, part organizer and recruiter, part public messenger, helping frame the party's arguments and identity, while charting a strategy to turn energy into votes in upcoming elections.Perez and Ellison appeared together for a joint news conference afterward in a session that was originally planned to be the winner's opportunity to address reporters. Perez said they "are going to put our values in action" for a country he described as "fearful" over Trump's priorities."Do they really invest in 50 state parties? Are they really going to engage with people in the streets?" Weaver asked. "Are they really going to bring those people into the party, so that you have a much broader cross-section of Democratically aligned voters represented?"Hazmat crews gather at the main hall of Kuala Lumpur International Airport 2 in Sepang, Malaysia on Sunday, Feb. 26, 2017. Malaysian police order a sweep of Kuala Lumpur airport for toxic chemicals and other hazardous substances following the killing of Kim Jong Nam. (AP Photo/Daniel Chan)KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia (AP)  Malaysia's health minister said Sunday autopsy results suggested a nerve agent caused "very serious paralysis" that killed the exiled half brother of North Korea's leader, as police completed a sweep of the budget terminal where he was poisoned and declared it safe of any toxin.The investigation has unleashed a serious diplomatic fight between Malaysia and North Korea, a prime suspect in the Feb. 13 killing of Kim Jong Nam at Kuala Lumpur's airport. Friday's revelation by Malaysian police that the banned chemical weapon VX nerve agent was used to kill Kim raised the stakes significantly in a case that has broad geopolitical implications.Health Minister Subramaniam Sathasivam said the state chemistry department's finding of the VX toxin confirmed the hospital's autopsy result that suggested a "chemical agent caused very serious paralysis" that led to death "in a very short period of time." The VX agent can lead to death very quickly in high doses, he said.Tens of thousands of passengers have passed through the airport since the apparent assassination was carried out. No areas were cordoned off, and protective measures were not taken. Subramaniam said there have been no reports so far of anyone else being sickened by the toxin.The sweep started around 2 a.m. Sunday involving officers from chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear teams, as well as the fire department's hazardous materials unit and the government's atomic energy board. Although VX is not radioactive, police said the radiological team and the atomic energy board were involved as a precaution.Abdul Samah Mat, the police official leading the investigations, said a two-hour sweep by more than a dozen officers in protective gear detected no hazardous material. He said the budget terminal is "free from any form of contamination of hazardous material" and declared it a "safe zone."Experts say the nerve agent used to kill Kim was almost certainly produced in a sophisticated state weapons laboratory and is banned under an international treaty. But North Korea never signed the treaty, and it has spent decades developing a complex chemical weapons program.Kim was not an obvious political threat to his estranged half brother, Kim Jong Un. But he may have been seen as a potential rival in North Korea's dynastic dictatorship, even though he had lived in exile for years. North Korea has denied any role in the attack.Indonesia's deputy ambassador Andriano Erwin told reporters that Siti Aisyah said she had been paid the equivalent of $90 for what she believed was a harmless prank. Aisyah, 25, said she had been introduced to people who looked like Japanese or Koreans who asked her to play a prank for a reality show, according to Erwin.An odorless chemical with the consistency of motor oil, VX is an extremely powerful poison, with an amount no larger than a few grains of salt enough to kill. It can be inhaled, swallowed or absorbed through the skin. Then, in anywhere from a few seconds to a few hours, it can cause a range of symptoms, from blurred vision to a headache. Enough exposure leads to convulsions, paralysis, respiratory failure and death.In grainy surveillance footage, the women appear to smear something onto Kim's face before walking away in separate directions. Malaysian police said the attackers knew what they were doing and had been trained to go immediately to the bathroom and clean their hands.Also Saturday, police confirmed that a raid earlier in the week on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur was part of the investigation. Abdul Samah did not specify what authorities found there, but said the items were being tested for traces of any chemicals.The House sergeant-at-arms will stand at the rear of the House of Representatives on Tuesday night and announce the arrival of Donald Trump before a joint session of Congress by intoning: "Mister Speaker, the President of the United States" just like always.The speech offers Trump an opportunity to stand before millions of viewers around the United States and the world, and try to reframe his presidency after a chaotic opening in which he's rattled world leaders, railed against leaked information, engaged in open warfare with the press and seen his signature effort to halt some immigration thwarted by the courts. He probably will stress early achievements such as his nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch for the Supreme Court and a series of executive orders to rein in government.There also are big questions about how Democrats will choose to show their opposition to the president, especially if they are emboldened by the vocal Trump opponents who have turned out in force at legislators' town-hall meetings in their home districts over the past few weeks.During Obama's September 2009 address to a joint session of Congress on health care, Rep. Joe Wilson, a South Carolina Republican, blurted out "You lie!" It was seen by many as a breathtaking show of disrespect. Groups of Republicans also showed their displeasure with Obama in more subtle ways, by snickering or not applauding."How will he respond when several hundred Democratic members of Congress are not giving him the love he's hoping for from the audience?" Waldman asks. "There's never been anybody who's stood there before, who's responded to audiences with as much extemporaneous venom."This Friday, Feb. 24, 2017, photo provided by the Johnson County Sheriff\'s Office in Olathe, Kan., shows Adam Purinton, who has been charged with murder and attempted murder in the Wednesday night shooting at a crowded bar in the Kansas City suburb of Olathe. One man was killed and two were injured in the shooting. (Johnson County Sheriff\'s Office via AP)OLATHE, Kan. (AP)  A Kansas man accused of shooting two Indian immigrants and a third man at a bar, in what some believe was a hate crime, was always a drinker but became a "drunken mess" after his father died about 18 months ago, a longtime neighbor said Saturday.He said in the past year, Purinton bounced from one menial job to the next and was sometimes drunk by mid-morning. But in the 15 years he's lived across the street from Purinton in Olathe, Berthelsen said he's never heard him make a racist remark or talk politics. He said he doesn't believe the shooting stemmed from hatred, and that it likely resulted from Purinton's physical and mental deterioration.Purinton, 51, was arrested hours after the attack at a restaurant and bar about 70 miles (110 kilometers) from Olathe in Clinton, Missouri. He is jailed on murder and attempted murder charges, and he didn't have a lawyer as of Saturday, according to court records. His first court appearance is scheduled for Monday.Srinivas Kuchibhotla, a 32-year-old engineer at GPS device-maker Garmin, was killed. His friend and colleague, 32-year-old Alok Madasani, and a man who tried to intervene, 24-year-old Ian Grillot, were wounded. Madasani was released from the hospital Thursday. Grillot remains hospitalized.Authorities on Friday declined to discuss a possible motive for the attack or to say if they were investigating it as a possible hate crime. But Madasani's father in India described it as such, and the incident has stoked fears about the treatment of immigrants, who feel targeted by President Donald Trump's promises to ban certain travelers, build a wall along the Mexico border and put "America first."Madasani, also a Garmin engineer, told The New York Times on Friday that Purinton had been sitting near him and Kuchibhotla on the bar's patio. Madasani said he asked them what type of visas they were on and whether they were in the U.S. illegally. Both were in the country legally.Purinton is a Navy veteran and former air traffic controller, and Berthelsen, a 57-year-old contractor, said his neighbor did IT work in the past. But over the past year, Purinton worked at liquor and hardware stores and washed dishes at a pizza parlor, Berthelsen said.Austins reopened on Saturday. Many of the people who trickled in for lunch hugged staff members or other patrons. A makeshift shrine of flowers continued to build beneath a tree near the main entrance. And police in three vehicles monitored across the parking lot.John Teegarden, a regular who has been going to Austins for two decades, said Saturday that he didn't know the victims well but had seen them around. He said the bar staff and guests are "like one big family," and his older son even works there, though he wasn't on duty when the attack happened.GENEVA (AP)  A deadly terrorist attack in central Syria on Saturday threatened to thwart efforts to wrest a political solution at peace talks in Geneva, with the U.N. mediator decrying "spoilers" who try to derail the efforts to end the country's disastrous six-year war.The government's envoy demanded a firm condemnation from all opposition groups of the synchronized attacks by insurgents on security offices in Homs that left dozens dead, while the opposition retorted that it has long denounced terrorism  even suggesting it may have been an inside job."Any party that refuses to condemn these attacks today, we will consider that party to be an accomplice of terrorism," Syria's U.N. ambassador, Bashar al-Ja'afari, told reporters after meeting U.N. envoy Staffan de Mistura in the third day of renewed peace talks  with the sides meeting separately with him so far.The talks are the first under U.N. mediation in nearly 10 months and build upon a fragile, repeatedly violated cease-fire that was wrested by Russia and Turkey. Moscow has been a powerful military and political backer of Syrian President Bashar Assad's government, and Turkey has been a supporter of key rebel groups. They also come after Syria's Russia- and Iran-backed troops regained control of the key northern city of Aleppo in December.Al-Ja'afari stopped short of suspending the government's participation outright, but said a condemnation of the attacks was a "test" for the fragmented opposition. He said his side would return to meet with the U.N. envoy again on Tuesday, and said its only condition for face-to-face talks with a "unified, patriotic opposition."An al-Qaida-linked group, known now as the Levant Liberation Committee, claimed responsibility for the twin attacks against government security offices in Homs, killing at least 32 including a senior officer of the feared Military Intelligence Services.Hassoun also alleged that military intelligence services chief Maj. Gen Hassan Daeboul, who was killed in Saturday's attack, had been implicated in the assassination of Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in Beirut in 2005. Syria's government is widely believed to have played a role in the killing."Spoilers were always expected, and should continue to be expected, to try to influence the proceedings of the talks," the statement said. "It is in the interest of all parties who are against terrorism and are committed to a political process in Syria not to allow these attempts to succeed."In addition to cease-fire talks in Astana, Kazakhstan shepherded by Turkey and Russia in recent weeks, the U.N.-mediated discussions are seen as the best chance in months to put an end to Syria's nearly six-year war that has killed hundreds of thousands and displaced millions more both within Syria and abroad.FILE - In this April 15, 1975 file photo, Heavyweight boxing champion Muhammad Ali, and Little Muhammad Ali, his 2 1/2 year old son, arrive at Miami Beach, Fla. Muhammad Ali\'s son, who bears the boxing great\'s name, was detained by immigration officials at a Florida airport and questioned about his ancestry and religion in what amounted to unconstitutional profiling, a family friend said Saturday, Feb. 25, 2017. (AP Photo/File)Returning from a Black History Month event in Jamaica, Muhammad Ali Jr. and his mother, Khalilah Camacho Ali, were pulled aside and separated from each other on Feb. 7 at the immigration checkpoint at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport, said Chris Mancini, a family friend and attorney.Camacho Ali was released a short time later after showing a photo of herself with her ex-husband, the former heavyweight boxing champion, Mancini said. But Ali Jr. was not carrying a photo of his world-famous father  a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom.Ali Jr., 44, who confirmed his Muslim faith, was detained about two hours, despite telling officials that he's Ali's son and a native-born U.S. citizen, Mancini said. It was the first time Ali Jr. and his mother have ever been asked if they're Muslim when re-entering the United States, he said."From the way they were treated, from what was said to them, they can come up with no other rational explanation except they fell into a profiling program run by customs, which is designed to obtain information from anyone who says they're a Muslim," Mancini said in a phone interview. "It's quite clear that what triggered his detention was his Arabic name and his religion."Ali, the three-time heavyweight champion and humanitarian, died last June at age 74 after a long battle with Parkinson's disease. People lined the streets of Louisville, Kentucky, to say goodbye to the city's most celebrated son before a star-studded memorial service watched worldwide.FILE - In this June 14, 2016 file photo, Berkshire Hathaway Chairman and CEO Warren Buffett addresses the White House Summit on the United State of Women in Washington. Buffett is planning to release his annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders on Saturday, Feb. 25, 2017.  The letter is always one of the best-read business documents every year because of Buffett\'s knack for explaining complex issues in simple terms and because of his remarkably successful investing record. (AP Photo/Cliff Owen)"I'll repeat what I've both said in the past and expect to say in future years: Babies born in America today are the luckiest crop in history," wrote Buffett, who has said he thinks the economy will be OK under President Donald Trump. Buffett is a longtime Democrat who supported Hillary Clinton in last year's campaign."The bottom line: When trillions of dollars are managed by Wall Streeters charging high fees, it will usually be the managers who reap outsized profits, not the clients," Buffett wrote. "Both large and small investors should stick with low-cost index funds."Investment manager Cole Smead said he felt that Buffett spent too much of the letter extolling Berkshire's virtues instead of talking about how he'll approach investing the company's $86 billion cash or what went wrong with the failed $143 billion bid for Unilever that Berkshire took part in with 3G Capital.Berkshire is now one of the biggest shareholders in American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, United Continental and Southwest, but he has offered little explanation for his change of heart other than to say airlines are better businesses after all the consolidation in the industry."Think airlines. Here a durable competitive advantage has proven elusive ever since the days of the Wright Brothers," Buffett wrote. "Indeed, if a farsighted capitalist had been present at Kitty Hawk, he would have done his successors a huge favor by shooting Orville down."WASHINGTON (AP)  President Donald Trump, who has been criticizing the news media and is famously thin-skinned, says he won't be attending the White House Correspondents' Association dinner  sparing himself the dubious honor of being an in-the-house target of jokes.The annual fundraiser for college scholarships and venue for reporting awards mixes politicians, journalists and celebrities and is typically attended by the president and first lady. Remarks by a comedian, often roasting the president, and a humorous address by the president himself, often roasting the press and political opponents, have highlighted the event, which C-SPAN has carried live.Trump had been a regular at the WHCA dinner in recent years, befitting his celebrity status as a reality TV star and beauty pageant owner. He skipped the dinner in April 2016, which came amid the presidential campaign and was the last of the dinners in which President Barack Obama was the honored guest. That didn't mean Trump wasn't the butt of jokes. At one point Obama told guests that Trump "has spent years meeting with leaders from around the world  Miss Sweden, Miss Argentina, Miss Azerbaijan."If he attended the dinner Trump would be a prime target of jokes, the camera showing his reaction to one-liners. In 2011, he was on hand  and appeared humiliated  as Obama lobbed joke after joke at his expense. At the time Trump was a proponent of the debunked claim that Obama wasn't born in the U.S.In a statement following Trump's tweet, WHCA President Jeff Mason said: "The WHCA takes note of President Donald Trump's announcement on Twitter that he does not plan to attend the dinner, which has been and will continue to be a celebration of the First Amendment and the important role played by an independent news media in a healthy republic."NEW YORK (AP)  A trans-Atlantic wave of puzzlement is rippling across Sweden for the second time in a week, after a prominent Fox News program featured a "Swedish defense and national security advisor" who's unknown to the country's military and foreign-affairs officials.Swedes, and some Americans, have been wondering about representations of the Nordic nation in the U.S. since President Donald Trump invoked "what's happening last night in Sweden" while alluding to past terror attacks in Europe during a rally Feb. 18. There hadn't been any major incident in Sweden the previous night.Then, Fox News commentator Bill O'Reilly convened an on-air faceoff Thursday over Swedish immigration and crime between a Swedish newspaper reporter and a man identified on screen and verbally as a "Swedish defense and national security advisor," Nils Bildt.Bildt is a founding member of a corporate geopolitical strategy and security consulting business with offices in Washington, Brussels and Tokyo, according its website. His bio speaks to expertise on defense and national security issues, saying his experience includes serving as a naval officer, working for a Japanese official and writing books on issues ranging from investment and political climates to security issues in working in hostile environments."He is in not in any way a known quantity in Sweden and has never been part of the Swedish debate," Swedish Defence University leadership professor Robert Egnell said by email to The Associated Press on Saturday. He and Bildt  also known then as Nils Tolling  were in a master's degree program in war studies together at King's College London in 2002-2003, and Bildt moved to Japan soon after, he said."Sorry for any confusion caused, but needless to say I think that is not really the issue. The issue is Swedish refusal to discuss their social problems and issues," he added in a statement to the news website Mediaite, explaining his profession as being an independent political adviser.