bbc-sport
In June 2015, in conjunction with the US website ProPublica, the BBC's Panorama programme Catch Me If You Can made a series of allegations about the methods at NOP, and included testimony from a number of former athletes and coaches, including Kara Goucher and Steve Magness. The film alleged Salazar had a fixation on the testosterone levels of his athletes, and may have doped American Olympic medallist Galen Rupp with the banned steroid version when he was 16. The programme also alleged Salazar had conducted testosterone experiments on his sons to see how much of the drug he could apply to them before it triggered positive tests.  Usada took the unusual step of confirming it had launched an investigation into NOP following the BBC and ProPublica's revelations in 2015. Earlier stories by the New York Times and the Sunday Times had also raised concerns about some of Salazar's methods. "I would say to the Leicester players, if you look in the mirror and ask yourself a question - have I worked as hard as I could and given the manager everything? I would pretty much say, for the vast majority of that Leicester squad, the answer would be no. They could do more, I'm certain of that."Fans will get over it, I'm sure. We saw what happened with Chelsea when Diego Costa and Cesc Fabregas were booed after half an hour and then Chelsea go and score goals and get back to winning ways. Fans soon forget. However, you will never ever forget what happened last season. That was the best thing that has happened and will ever happen, in the Premier League, a team achieving what like Leicester did." "Any game we play and don't win we are disappointed. Chelsea are a very good side, they have fantastic quality and that was the difference. We didn't have a lot of chances but we came in at 1-1 for half-time and for long periods we defended really well."There was a big moment with the handball, I thought Cesar Azpilicueta handled it at 1-1, it's a clear handball. That gives you a chance to go 2-1 up but three minutes later you're 2-1 down with a soft goal. Based on chances they deserved to win, but there was  big moment that didn't go our way, and who knows what might have happened.""We've seen in recent weeks with Swansea that they made it very difficult for Liverpool at Anfield, they were unlucky to lose at Manchester City. They are very organised. The difference between Liverpool and City with this Chelsea side is the pace with which they go forward. That's why Cesc Fabregas was in the team today. He was brilliant. He's the one that started the goal off."It's topical that players are not working for mangers. The irony is last season we were sat here with a large bunch of these same Chelsea players - they weren't working for their manager and we know what happened. It's such a transformation now. We saw how brilliant they were with the ball but look at them now without it. The transformation from then to now is incredible."Vargas, with Iganacio Beristain - who has trained Oscar de la Hoya and Juan Manuel Marquez to world titles - in his corner, took the middle of the ring early and confidently landed three-shot combinations with McDonnell visibly cautious against a man with 22 previous knockouts.The younger man's confidence to switch from making the fight to boxing on the back foot near the ropes perhaps showed he knew he had built a good early lead. McDonnell's head movement was energetic throughout, while his opponent was happy to remain static at times as he waited to pick his attacks.The Mexican, down in the first, somehow made the second round but was flattened by a left uppercut. Campbell, who began training in Miami after the Mendy defeat, showed his typically energetic style and now has hopes of a shot at WBC champion Mikey Garcia.Their enterprising start was epitomised by an outrageous dummy by scrum-half Baptiste Serin, which almost yielded a try, while centre Remi Lamerat was only denied a score by a knock-on by his midfield partner Gael Fickou after Lopez's audacious cross-field kick had set up the chance.