Battle for Mosul: The story so far

Iraqi security forces taking part in a military offensive to reclaim the northern Iraqi city of Mosul from so-called Islamic State (IS) have recaptured the airport to the west of the city.
Taking the airport is a key gain in the government's bid to drive IS militants from the western half of the city. Controlling it will help secure routes from the south.
Iraqi security forces, Kurdish Peshmerga fighters, Sunni Arab tribesmen and Shia militiamen, assisted by US-led coalition warplanes and military advisers, are involved in the operation, launched on 17 October 2016.
IS jihadists overran Mosul as they spread across much of northern and western Iraq two years earlier in 2014.
After liberating eastern Mosul in January this year, government forces are now entering the west of the city. However, with its narrow, winding streets, it presents a more difficult challenge than the east. The west is densely populated and includes districts regarded as pro-IS.
Retaking the whole of Mosul is expected to take several more months.

The UN has voiced concern about civilians trapped in the west, amid reports that they could number up to 650,000.
The UN said in late January that almost half of all the casualties in Mosul were civilians. At least 1,096 have been killed and 694 injured across Nineveh province since the start of October.
Territorial control: 24 February 2016
Map showing territory recaptured by government forces around the Iraqi city of Mosul
Lt Gen Stephen Townsend, the operation's task force commander, described the recapture of eastern Mosul as a "monumental achievement" for the Iraqi people, but warned there was "still a long way to go" before IS was eliminated from Iraq.
It took from mid-October until 8 January 2017 for Iraqi forces to advance as far as the River Tigris and another two weeks to gain full control of the eastern side of Mosul.
Iraq forces seize Mosul airport from IS
Iraq gaining momentum against IS
Battle for western Mosul will be toughest yet
Elsewhere in the region, the Shia-dominated, paramilitary Popular Mobilisation force has been advancing westwards towards the town of Tal Afar and the border with Syria.
Territorial loss
Contradictory reports mean it is difficult to know exactly how much territory has been regained.
The maps shown here are based on expert analysis from two different sources, the Institute for the Study of War (for the recent advances) and IHS Conflict Monitor for territory.
According to analysis by IHS Conflict Monitor, IS fighters have been losing territory since the offensive began. However, gains slowed when Iraqi government forces met stiff resistance in the city of Mosul.
Territory changes: Oct 2016-Jan 2017
Series of maps showing territory changes in and around Mosul, Iraq
Satellite images have revealed extensive damage to Mosul's infrastructure, buildings and archaeological sites - in particular to the city's airport and bridges.
Mosul airport
Imagery, released by US geopolitical intelligence company Stratfor in October 2016, showed how IS fighters sabotaged much of the city's airport, with wide trenches carved into it and rubble placed along their lengths.
Satellite image showing damage to Mosul airport's runway
The images also show how coalition airstrikes, aimed at destroying key IS positions and assets, caused damage to Mosul's sugar factory - a facility kept in action by the militants.
Satellite image showing damage to Mosul's sugar factory
Imagery also revealed how the jihadists constructed multiple barricades across key routes into the city, including north of the airport.
The barriers have been made out of concrete blocks and other rubble, Stratfor's analysis says, possibly from the walls of destroyed buildings.
Satellite map showing barricades in Mosul city
Mosul's bridges
All bridges linking the east and west of the city, across the Tigris river, have also been destroyed.
In the centre of the city, four of the five main bridges were put out of action in October and November by coalition air strikes, with the aim of limiting the jihadists' ability to resupply or reinforce their positions in the east.
The Old Bridge - the only remaining route open to vehicles in the centre of the city - was disabled in a US-led coalition air strike at the end of December.
Stratfor images show how the bridges have been damaged.
Al Jamhuriya Bridge
Damage to Al Jamhuriya Bridge in MosulImage copyrightAP
A US air strike damaged the Al Jamhuriya Bridge at the eastern end last October, but IS have since set up a barrier on the western side, shown below.
The western end of the Al Jamhuriya Bridge in Mosul
Fourth Bridge
In November 2016 a US air strike damaged the bridge, but more recently it has been rendered impassable by further damage, shown below.
The Fourth Bridge in Mosul
Humanitarian crisis
The UN has warned that the offensive to retake western Mosul could displace up to 400,000 civilians and involve a siege in the densely-populated old city.
It estimates 800,000 civilians are living in western districts. UN humanitarian co-ordinator for Iraq, Lise Grande, said half of them could flee their homes "in a worst case" scenario - twice the displacement seen in eastern Mosul.
Leaflets warning residents of the offensive have been dropped.
More than 160,000 people fled their homes in and around Mosul since the offensive began last October, but nearly 30,000 of them have returned to their places of origin.

The UN refugee agency, the UNHCR, says more than 20,000 emergency kits have been distributed to families in its camps and that it is helping about 126,000 people who have been forced to flee their homes.
The organisation says many of those who have fled Mosul and ended up in the camps have witnessed the deaths of relatives, friends and neighbours. Children are showing severe signs of trauma - such as excessive crying, mutism, bed-wetting and fear of leaving their parents.