business-insider

  ATLANTA In an extremely close race that went to multiple
  rounds of balloting, former Labor Secretary Tom Perezwas
  elected Saturday to head the Democratic National Committee,
  ending the months-long jockeying for the top spot in the
  Democratic Party's election arm.

  In his first motion as chairman, Perez moved to make Ellison the
  deputy chairman of the DNC, a new position. He praised the
  Minnesota congressman at length, emphasizing that the Democratic
  Party needed to come together and comparingthe rifts in the
  partyto a "spirited" political discussion over Thanksgiving
  dinner.

  "When I was looking in the audience, there was someone holding up
  a sign that says 'Unite.' And I could not agree more. For the two
  of us, that is easy, because we were always united in our
  values," Perez said. "And we are united in our love for the
  Democratic Party."

  The decision came after a contestwhich some viewed as a
  rehash of the 2016 presidential primary, with Perez garnering
  support fromestablishment figures like former Vice
  President Joe Biden and former Attorney General Eric
  Holderand Ellison representing the ascendant progressive
  wings of the Democratic Party. President Barack Obama, under whom
  Perez served, congraulated him on the victory, as did 2016
  Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.

  "The WHCA takes note of President Donald Trump's announcement on
  Twitter that he does not plan to attend the dinner, which has
  been and will continue to be a celebration of the First Amendment
  and the important role played by an independent news media in a
  healthy republic," Mason said.

  The annual dinner, held in April, is typically attended by an
  array of media outlets and celebrities, as well as the president,
  administration officials, and prominent politicians. A
  high-profile comedian usually emcees the event, and the president
  delivers a monologue.

  In the final week of the campaign, some media outlets were
  enamored with the mayor. He attracted local press attention in
  states like California. The left-leaning outlet Salon said
  Buttigieg was shaking up the race for DNC chair by airing out
  the toxicity of the fight between Perez and Ellison. And he
  garnered positive coverage for his debate performance on CNN.

  In previous years, armies of supporters swarmed the conference
  halls championing Sen. Rand Paul  and formerly Ron Paul  as the
  future of the Republican Party. These attendees argued that an
  embrace of libertarianism would usher in a wave of youth support
  and rescue the GOP from assured death.

  But, after President Donald Trump's surprise November victory,
  the CPAC program conspicuously changed, underscoring
  nationalistic ideals while tepidly moving away from principles of
  small government that were popular among conservatives during
  President Barack Obama's eight years in office.

  "I was shocked when I looked at the schedule and, except for Ted
  Cruz, there are no liberty Republicans on the stage," he said.
  "There's no Rand Paul, obviously there's no Ron Paul  but
  there's no Justin Amash, there's no Thomas Massie, there's no
  Mike Lee."

  "During the Obama years, Paul pere et fils were the only ones
  offering a serous critique of mainstream Republicanism, which the
  party recognizes is drifting," he said an email. "Trump's
  victory, however narrow, allows the GOP regulars to go about
  their business as if nothing is wrong."

  Cliff Maloney, president of YAL, said his group's purpose in the
  past has primarily been to "deliver a win for liberty minded
  folks in the CPAC straw poll" and that with Trump in the White
  House, influencing the straw poll would not achieve much.

  Still, the absence of a vocal faction of libertarians left many
  attendees disappointed and dismayed. Kibbe said he was "surprised
  by the lack of liberty groups," and others who have been active
  in the movement said they too were disconcerted.

  "As someone who came into this movement through Dr. Paul's 2008
  campaign, I'm disappointed more of my libertarian friends aren't
  here," said Matthew Hurtt, a libertarian activist and former Ron
  Paul-supporting delegate at the Republican National Convention.

  "I think one of the reasons I wrote this book is that I think
  this issue needs to be brought out front and center," he said.
  "If you have to compete with an entity that is actually a front
  group for a big special interest and you haven't successfully
  told the story of how it's just the end of the tentacle, then
  you're going to be at a huge disadvantage. And what it says will
  be given more face-value credit by the public than if they knew,
  'Oh, OK, that's the glove with the Koch brothers hand in it, with
  Wall Street's hand in it.' So I think it's really important we
  focus on that."

  "Stuff that people can envision and we can deliver," he added.
  "I've spent 10 years in the Senate now and the talk about
  messaging is making me increasingly insane. I don't think you
  earn the right to a message until you've earned it by having a
  real fight, really being willing to stand up for what you believe
  in."

  He said Democrats' tendency to be "constantly" moving "from
  message point to message point,positioning yourself on
  issues without ever taking a step back, deciding what the hell
  you're going to do, and jamming it through as best you can, or at
  least making it one hell of a big fight so that everyone in the
  country knows that it took place," is a major "mistake."

  "I think that's where, just not letting ourselves get painted
  into a soft-on-safety corner," he said. "But I think that having
  a lot of respect for law enforcement and showing it, having a lot
  of respect for the military and showing it  and getting ahead of
  the big liabilities like cybersecurity are very good places to
  be."

  "Look at 2014 when ISIS popped up and Ebola popped up and the
  children from Guatemala and Central America were starting to come
  across the border," he said. "And the next thing you know Fox
  News had turned that all into the Ebola babies coming over the
  borders to come slice your head off like ISIS into kind of one
  big panic. And our Democratic message that election was exactly
  zero. And we just got crushed as a result."

  "Well, I think if I knew that I would be a bigger wheel in our
  operation," Whitehouse said. "I don't know the answer to that. I
  think partly it comes from the sort of big-tent, check-the-box
  politics that can emerge from a party that has very broad but not
  particularly deep backing. So, you've got right with Planned
  Parenthood, you've got right with the LGBT community, you've got
  right with public labor unions, you've got right with the private
  labor unions, you've got right with young voters, and you kind
  of, every time you do that, there's another added step."

  "So, I don't know, those are some of my original thoughts," he
  continued. "If we were ... if it were just a few more centralized
  forces who ran our party, then you would say, 'All right, these
  are the sort ofthree or four things we're pushing on.' And
  to the folks inother industries who aren't part of those
  three or four, we'd just say, 'Look, shut up for now  we're
  trying to win this election. We'll take care of you when we're
  in. You know we will. So stand by. You don't have to clamor.'"

  "For us, it's an uphill fight to get a clear, distinctive,
  memorable message out of the cacophonyof our multiple
  support groups," he continued. "For the other side, it's actually
  kind of delivered to them by the organizations behind them that
  dominate in the Republican political background ...and so I
  think my colleagues kind of sit on the table reading from the
  package. When it comes, they go out and sell it. Whereas we're
  all like out with everybody making sure it's success for us if we
  get their idea on the table and the platform has to have 90
  different parts to it and if anybody is left out they're all
  jumping up and down about it."

  The race between Perez and Ellison was frequently compared to
  that of Clinton and Sanders, with Perez being seen as the
  establishment figure and Ellison as the populist who could more
  effectively help the party appeal to working-class voters.

  For instance, Bush passed the TroubledAsset Relief Program
  in October 2008 which used just over $426 billion in federal
  funds to "bail out" the country's largest banks. Obama signed the
  American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in February 2009 which
  allocated $831 billion in federal funds to finance investment
  projects such as infrastructure.

  The labor market has improved drastically, with unemployment at
  just 4.8% and the number of people claiming unemployment benefits
  nearing the lowest point in 40 years. In fact, during Obama's
  term the US added over 11 million private sector jobs.

  While it's not all perfect  business investment is lagging,
  wages still haven't hit pre-crisis levels, and economic gains
  have not been equally distributed throughout the country  there
  is no doubt that Trump inherits a better economic starting
  position than Obama did in 2009 with no reason to spend massive
  amounts of federal money to assist the economy.

  Many people who voiced concernsabout immigration weren't
  frustrated that immigrants mightbe taking job opportunities
  from them. Instead, they were more worried about the overall
  culture of America changing, and they felt tightening borders
  could help preserve it.

  "The most surprising takeaway for me was how little [the
  anti-immigration feelings] seemed to be driven by economic
  concerns," Altman wrote. Instead, much of
  itwas"driven by fears about 'losing our
  culture,''safety,''community,' and a general
  Us-vs.-Them mentality."
