business-insider-uk

  According to The BBC, Andreano Erwin, the Indonesian deputy
  ambassador who met with Aisyah on Saturday, said: "She only said
  in general that somebody asked her to do this activity. She only
  said in general she met with some people who looked Japanese or
  Korean. According to her, that person gave her 400 ringgits to do
  this activity... She only said she was given a kind of oil, like
  baby oil."

  Kim Jong-Nam is the eldest son of Kim Jong-Il and was once the
  favourite to assume the North Korean leadership. However, he
  reportedly fell out of favour with his father when he failed in
  an attempt to enter Japan on a fake passport in 2001. He
  livedin exile ever since and his been publicly critical of
  his family's North Korean leadership regime. His half-brother Kim
  Jong-Un was declared Supreme Leader of North Korea in 2011.
 and I have no magic plan to add earnings except to
  dream big and to be prepared mentally and financially to act fast
  when opportunities present themselves," he writes in a section
  detailing what Berkshire Hathaway hopes to accomplish going
  forward.

  "American business  and consequently a basket of stocks  is
  virtually certain to be worth far more in the years ahead.
  Innovation, productivity gains, entrepreneurial spirit and an
  abundance of capital will see to that. [... Nevertheless]
  manycompanies, of course, will fall behind, and some will
  fail. Winnowing of that sort is a product of market dynamism.
  Moreover, the years ahead will occasionally deliver major market
  declines  even panics  that will affect virtually all stocks.
  No one can tell you when these traumas will occur  not me, not
  Charlie, not economists, not the media. [...]
.
  Second, personal fear is your enemy. It will also be unwarranted.
  Investors who avoid high and unnecessary costs and simply sit for
  an extended period with a collection of large,
  conservatively-financed American businesses will almost certainly
  do well."

  Bleacher Report cofounder Bryan Goldberg revealed a lot of
  business tips and tricks. But he also discussed how the Las Vegas
  trip happened. His team had just sold Bleacher Reportto
  Turner Media for about $200 million, and Turner hadn't fully
  "wrapped its arms" around Bleacher Reportyet, so there was
  a short window of opportunity to plan an epic trip.

  Goldberg wouldn't reveal many details, except to say that they
  all managed to come back alive. He says he won't be doing that
  again if his new startup, Bustle, gets acquired, because he is
  now "old, stodgy Bryan" and it "isn't the right thing to do."
 At that point it was like 160 people,
  170 people. The CEO, Brian Grey, very wisely didn't go. I think
  one of the fun things about having a CEO when you're in your 20s
  running a company is he can be the grown-up and he can look the
  other way. He was like, "I'm not going anywhere near this. You
  pay for it out of pocket. You do it on the weekend. This is not a
  Bleacher Report event."
 If we sell Bustle, and I hate to say
  it  and my team at Bustle is going to hear this podcast and say,
  "Well, wait a minute. Bleacher Report got to do a Vegas trip 
  why don't we?"  and I'm going to say, "You know what, because I
  was young then and I'm old now, and old, boring, stodgy Bryan in
  his mid-30s is not going to do a trip to Vegas because it's just
  not the right thing to do."

  Writing in Oxford's weekly briefing for the UK, economist Martin
  Beck argues that despite the strong headline figures in recent
  economic data, there are some signs that the impact of the vote
  for Brexit may finally be starting to filter into the habits of
  British consumers.

  "Meanwhile, a 1.3% cash-terms rise in consumer spending in Q4
  dwarfed the 0.1% increase in wages and salaries in the same
  three-month period. So households appear to have borrowed more or
  dipped into savings to fund spending, raising a question mark
  over the sustainability of further growth."

  Miliband is currently the head of the International Rescue
  Committee in New York. Asked whether he would consider making a
  comeback to UK politics, he said: "I honestly don't know what I
  am going to do. It's hard to see, but what's the point of saying
  never?"
When you tap to add "My Status" for the first time, after you create your status (photo/video) it will give you the option to choose who you want to send it to via a pop up. Choose "Privacy Settings" in the pop up and from there select who you want to share it with.
  The election has two rounds of voting. The first takes place on
  April 23, with the two top candidates advancing to a head-to-head
  contest on May 7. Recent opinion polls have consistently shown
  that Le Pen, the National Front leader, will likely win the first
  round. Unless something changes, we put the chances of her moving
  on to the second round at around 90%.

  Its more difficult to know who will face her in that contest.
  Until recently, the favorite was center-right Republican party
  candidate Francois Fillon. But damaging corruption allegations
  might force Fillon to withdraw and make way for another
  Republican candidate.

  So far, centrist candidate Emmanuel Macron has been the main
  beneficiary of Fillons spiralMacron now occupies second place
  in opinion polls. But Fillons fall from grace shows we cant
  take too much for granted at this early stagea lot could change
  between now and polling day.

  All indications suggest Le Pen will take the first-round vote,
  but her prospects of winning the second round look much more
  remote. Recent opinion polls suggest that Fillon would beat Le
  Pen by 1520 points and that Macron would beat her by almost 30
  points.

  With the campaigns barely under way, we think Macron and Fillon
  (or an alternative center-right candidate) are equally likely to
  win; we assign probabilities of 35%40% to both. Socialist party
  candidate Benoit Hamon is a clear outsider, with a probability of
  only 5%10%.

  For financial markets, there probably isnt much difference
  between a Macron or Fillon victory: both have reformist agendas,
  and a victory for either would likely lead to a modest relief
  rally. The same would not be true for Hamon: hes from the left
  of his party and plans to introduce a shorter working week and
  guaranteed minimum income.

  A Le Pen victory would be much more damaging. While some aspects
  of the National Fronts populist agenda are being echoed in other
  countriesincluding more protectionism and stricter immigration
  controlsLe Pen also wants to regain monetary, legislative,
  territorial and fiscal sovereignty from the European Union (EU).
  This would involve quitting the euro, restricting the free
  movement of people and abandoning EU debt and deficit limits.

  The market reaction to a Le Pen victory would likely be severe.
  France, whose importance for economic and political integration
  in Europe has helped keep its debt yields closer to those of
  Germany than fundamentals might warrant, would likely see yields
  rise sharply.

  Nor would the rest of the euro area escape unscathed. Even though
  Le Pen would struggle to implement her program, theres little
  doubt that a National Front victory would lead investors to think
  that a euro-area breakup was more likely. This would drive
  peripheral yields higher and German yields lower, while putting
  downward pressure on the euros exchange rate.

  The European Central Bank (ECB) wouldnt stand idly by. But would
  ECB action be effective if the president of France were actively
  pushing in the opposite direction? A Le Pen victory may be a
  low-probability event, but would have very profound implications.
