buzzfeed
Ill have to tell you the unofficial story of how Diego and I met, because its what Ive been told by my parents since I was too young to remember. I met him when he was two days old and I was about one and my mother took me to visit him in the Mexican hospital where he was born. I think I ended up poking him in the face.We spent a lot of time together as babies but my father remembers the first time that Diego and I really became friends. We were walking with our parents in this beautiful plaza near our homes when we bumped into each other. Diego and I greeted each other and started to play and then  being little boys  fight. Since then weve have spent most of our lives hanging out together.: I will sing again, as #ariel #thelittlemermaid if Disney Studios will approve that #billcondon directs it along with my sister @alianamusic singing the theme song for the soundtrack. ??? also @kgrahamsfb plays Ursula. Simply because, she is the best. ? take one.Some people have dropped a significant amount of weight and want to get an abdominoplasty  or tummy tuck  to take care of the excess skin. Some have experienced changes to their breasts after pregnancy, breastfeeding, or cancer, and they just want their breasts to look the same again. Not all operations are necessary to live, but they may restore peoples confidence and self-esteem.The perceptions that plastic surgeons tend to be interested in the way they look is probably true for many in the field. In the same vein that its hard to find a fashion designer who doesnt care about what they wear, its pretty hard to find a plastic surgeon who isnt neat, or healthy, or doesnt care about their presentation.Once you get to med school, you realize how many specializations there really are. Theres hand surgery, pediatric plastic surgery (for birth defects such as cleft lips), cosmetic surgery, peripheral nerve surgery, microsurgery, and general plastic surgery, which involves a mix of a lot of these things. Theres a lot more to plastic surgery than what people see in movies and TV shows. plastic surgery is for people who, for instance, have birth defects, have been in accidents (car crashes, fire injuries, etc.), or have gone through surgeries for other health reasons and arent happy with the results of their operations. One of the most common reasons for reconstructive surgery is repairing skin cancer damage to the face, nose, and ears.You have to look at our previous work and see if you like our aesthetic, because every single operation can be done differently depending on the plastic surgeon. Its like scrolling through a tattoo artists Instagram or checking out the art books in their studio. We have photo galleries on our websites and in our offices that showcase the work weve done so people can see if it matches what theyre looking for.We have to make sure that what a patient wants and desires is in line with what we can give them. Sometimes what people want isnt aligned with reality, it isnt safe, it isnt healthy, or it isnt worth the risk. There are some people we will not operate on no matter what kind of money theyre willing to pay.In most cases we have a good idea of how long a procedure is going to take, but we usually leave some cushion time for experimentation because we know were perfectionists. In the case of breast augmentations, we may try different-sized and different-shaped implants to see what they look like before choosing the final one.Every day can be different. Depending on the week, we might wake up really early to meet with patients, maybe attend conferences, and then be back in the operating room by the afternoon to do a breast reconstruction, an augmentation, or a rhinoplasty (nose job), and then have to see a bunch of patients afterward.One of the best things about being a plastic surgeon is the various types of interactions you get to have with different people. Sometimes when we walk into a breast augmentation consultation, weve just come from helping a kid who got his finger stuck in a door at school.Sometimes we try to avoid telling people what we do because we dont want them to come up to us and ask what we can do for them. Its just an awkward situation that isnt comfortable for us. We dont want to tell people that they wouldnt be a good candidate, or judge their bodies and potentially hurt their feelings, so there are times when we try to avoid talking about it altogether.If you cut corners, youre going to get the service that you pay for. Maybe the place that offers heavy discounts doesnt use a board-certified anesthesiologist or board-certified nurses. People can get infections from these procedures and they can die. Its not worth it.We are lucky in that we usually dont have as many emergency surgeries come up, but we do work long hours. And there are some operations that can be especially time-consuming, like a specific type of breast reconstruction that requires transplanting other tissue to the breast.We usually work with patients who tend to be healthy and have outcomes that theyre happy with. Its not very often that we have to share bad news, so it can be a really fulfilling field. For the most part, were doing operations that people want, and that will make them look and feel more confident. I started out with the set of ten of these pens, and loved them. The only thing I was sad about was the fact that there werent as many colours as I wanted. Then this pack came out, and I was very excited. They have small nibs, which is perfect for getting into the tiny spaces in my colouring books. They are bright and vibrant and I love that there are neon colours in this pack too! 