cnbc
The president's decision to skip the WHCA dinner arrives at a time when even journalists have questioned whether the event has become too insular and self-congratulatory. Each year, reporters co-mingle with celebrities in a display of celebrity-soaked pageantry, featuring lots of sponsored parties and related events.However, the association added that it would continue to "pursue its core mission of advocating for journalists' ability to ask questions of government officials, push for transparency from the presidency, and help Americans hold the powerful to account. This is a responsibility that we have taken seriously for more than 100 years and will continue to uphold," WHCA president Jeff Mason added.
                    							    		    			    				    				
					    						    						    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		       		    		    			    				    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		       		    		    			    				    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		       		    									also bulldozed its way into the smartphone market, but tried to stage a comeback as its market share languished in the single digits. BlackBerry's efforts included releasing new units like the Leap and Android-powered PRIV,  all of which fell flat as smartphone users flocked to iPhones and Galaxy devices."TCL will be hoping that by licensing the BlackBerry brand it can extend its market reach beyond the low margin consumer segment (which it currently targets via the Alcatel brand) to the higher margin enterprise devices space," Ben Wood, chief of research at CCS Insight, told CNBC by email.After a difficult 2016 campaign that saw them lose in the White House, both chambers of Congress and in state houses across the country, Democrats elected Tom Perez, the former Labor Secretary during the Obama Administration, to lead the Democratic National Committee on Saturday.Perez won in the second round of voting during the 2017 Winter DNC Meeting in Atlanta, earning 235 votes from the 447 DNC members  the voting bloc that decides the chairmanship. Perez was considered the heavy favorite of the Democratic establishment.Mayor Pete Buttigeig of South Bend, Indiana, did not make it to the voting process, announcing during his nomination speech that he would be exiting the race. Buttigeig, 35, built a national profile as an emerging dark horse in the race for the chairmanship with the backing of former DNC Chairman Howard Dean."It looks like I'm not going to be the next chair," he added. "But whoever is, I am urging to do the things that must be done to be open to change, to look beyond Washington, to not treat the presidency like it's the only office that matters, to pay attention to communities like ours in the heart of our country  not as an exotic species  but as your fellow Americans."And after a four-month election, candidates in all camps spent the closing days saying whoever won the chair's race need to heal the rift between the party's establishment wing, represented by Perez, and anti-establishment side, which has rallied behind Ellison.Meanwhile the legendary stock picker extolled the virtues of passive investing and its advantages for regular investors. The 'Oracle of Omaha' even compared active managers to monkeys, and estimated that financial advisors, in their futile search for ways to beat the market, had cost clients $100 billion in wasted fees in the last 10 years."When trillions of dollars are managed by Wall Streeters charging high fees, it will usually be the managers who reap outsized profits, not the clients," stated the widely-read letter released on Saturday morning. "Both large and small investors should stick with low-cost index funds.""I publicly offered to wager $500,000 that no investment pro could select a set of at least five hedge funds  wildly-popular and high-fee investing vehicles  that would over an extended period match the performance of an unmanaged S&P-500 index fund charging only token fees. I suggested a ten-year bet and named a low-cost Vanguard S&P fund as my contender. I then sat back and waited expectantly for a parade of fund managers  who could include their own fund as one of the five  to come forth and defend their occupation. After all, these managers urged others to bet billions on their abilities. Why should they fear putting a little of their own money on the line?"To his surprise, only one person stepped up to take the other side of the bet: Protg  Partners' Ted Seides, a 'fund of funds' manager. According to the bet, Seides selected five funds of hedge funds, whose results after fees would be averaged and compared to Buffett's selection, a Vanguard S&P index fund."The compounded annual increase to date for the index fund is 7.1%, which is a return that could easily prove typical for the stock market over time...The five funds-of-funds delivered, through 2016, an average of only 2.2%, compounded annually. That means $1 million invested in those funds would have gained $220,000. The index fund would meanwhile have gained $854,000.""The results for their investors were dismal  really dismal. And, alas, the huge fixed fees charged by all of the funds and funds-of-funds involved  fees that were totally unwarranted by performance  were such that their managers were showered with compensation over the nine years that have passed," Buffett wrote. "As Gordon Gekko might have put it: 'Fees never sleep.'"In his letter, Buffett criticized how the whole Wall Street complex is still set up to send pension funds, endowments and other investor types into under-performing active vehicles. He claimed that the wealthy investor classes are getting ripped off the most:"In many aspects of life, indeed, wealth does command top-grade products or services. For that reason, the financial 'elites'  wealthy individuals, pension funds, college endowments and the like  have great trouble meekly signing up for a financial product or service that is available as well to people investing only a few thousand dollars. This reluctance of the rich normally prevails even though the product at issue is on an expectancy basis  clearly the best choice. My calculation, admittedly very rough, is that the search by the elite for superior investment advice has caused it, in aggregate, to waste more than $100 billion over the past decade. Figure it out: Even a 1% fee on a few trillion dollars adds up. Of course, not every investor who put money in hedge funds ten years ago lagged S&P returns. But I believe my calculation of the aggregate shortfall is conservative."Buffett stated that he knows of only 10 managers that he spotted early on who could outperform the S&P 500 over the long term, and they did so. He acknowledged there are more out there who may be able to beat the market, but they are the clear exception.  "If 1,000 managers make a market prediction at the beginning of a year, it's very likely that the calls of at least one will be correct for nine consecutive years. Of course, 1,000 monkeys would be just as likely to produce a seemingly all-wise prophet. But there would remain a difference: The lucky monkey would not find people standing in line to invest with him.""If a statue is ever erected to honor the person who has done the most for American investors, the hands down choice should be Jack Bogle," the letter stated. "In his early years, Jack was frequently mocked by the investment-management industry. Today, however, he has the satisfaction of knowing that he helped millions of investors realize far better returns on their savings than they otherwise would have earned."released its closely-watched annual letter on Saturday, in which the Oracle of Omaha told investors that the holding company's investment gains would continue to be 'substantial' in the coming years and the U.S. economy would continue its 'miraculous' boom.The Omaha, Nebraska-based conglomerate's net earnings rose to $6.29 billion in the fourth quarter of 2016, up from $5.48 billion in the comparable year ago period. Investors frequently parse the document for Buffett's insights into specific sectors, in addition to his thoughts on the economy.The 86-year old investor and his partner, 93 year-old Charlie Munger, have functioned as a dynamic duo that's helped turn Berkshire into a household name. Buffett wrote that the partnership will sometimes yield fewer dividends, but would remain lucrative."Some years, the gains in underlying earning power we achieve will be minor; very occasionally, the cash register will ring loud. Charlie and I have no magic plan to add earnings except to dream big and to be prepared mentally and financially to act fast when opportunities present themselves," Buffett said.Buffett did, however, speak favorably about immigrants, a segment of the U.S. population that has been under the microscope in recent weeks. Trump has moved to block illegal immigration, and issued a controversial travel ban to restrict movement by foreign citizens from seven countries linked to terrorism.Buffett also lauded what he called the "miraculous" performance of the U.S. economy, a dynamic he expects to help boost the company's own bottom line. Since 1965, Berkshire has returned a whopping 19 percent annual gain, a function of what Buffett said was a free market that created American prosperity."My error caused Berkshire shareholders to give far more than they received (a practice that  despite the Biblical endorsement  is far from blessed when you are buying businesses)," the Berkshire chairman wrote in the letter released Saturday morning. "The MidAmerican cash purchase  I was learning  firmly launched us on our present course of (1) continuing to build our insurance operation; (2) energetically acquiring large and diversified non-insurance businesses and (3) largely making our deals from internally-generated cash," Buffett wrote."I made one particularly egregious error, acquiring Dexter Shoe for $434 million in 1993. Dexter's value promptly went to zero. The story gets worse: I used stock for the purchase, giving the sellers 25,203 shares of Berkshire that at yearend 2016 were worth more than $6 billion," states the letter.In the section of the letter devoted to manufacturing, service and retailing operations or as Buffett described them "lollipops to jet airplanes" the Oracle described what led him to make some errors in that sector, but doesn't identify the specific businesses:"A few, however  these are serious blunders I made in my job of capital allocation  produce very poor returns. In most cases, I was wrong when I originally sized up the economic characteristics of these companies or the industries in which they operate, and we are now paying the price for my misjudgments. In a couple of instances, I stumbled in assessing either the fidelity or ability of incumbent managers or ones I later put in place."The Associated Press chose not to participate in the briefing after White House press secretary Sean Spicer restricted the number of journalists included. Typically, the daily briefing is televised and open to all news organizations credentialed to cover the White House. delivered a speech blasting the media, Spicer invited only a pool of news organizations that represents and shares reporting with the larger press corps. He also invited several other major news outlets, as well as smaller organizations including the conservative Washington Times, One America News Network and Breitbart News, whose former executive chairman, Steve Bannon, is Trump's chief strategist. When the additional news organizations attempted to gain access, they weren't allowed to enter."We've brought more reporters into this process. And the idea that every time that every single person can't get their question answered or fit in a room that we're excluding people. We've actually gone above and beyond with making ourselves, our team, and our briefing room more accessible than probably any prior administration. And so I think you can take that to the bank."The public has a right to know, and that means being informed by a variety of news sources, not just those filtered by the White House press office in hopes of getting friendly coverage," Maharaj said in a statement. "Regardless of access, the Times will continue to report on the Trump administration without fear or favor."Dean Baquet, executive editor of The New York Times, said that "nothing like this has ever happened at the White House in our long history of covering multiple administrations of different parties. We strongly protest the exclusion of The New York Times and the other news organizations. Free media access to a transparent government is obviously of crucial national interest.""A White House that has had some difficulty telling the truth and that has seemed to have trouble getting up to speed on the basic competent functioning of government, and a president who seems particularly averse to any criticism and has called the press the enemies of the American people  they're taking the next step in attempting to avoid checks and balances and accountability.Siti Aisyah also told authorities she did not want her parents to see her in custody, Andriano Erwin, Indonesia's deputy ambassador to Malaysia, said one day after Malaysia revealed that VX nerve agent was used in the bizarre killing at Kuala Lumpur's airport.The public poisoning of Kim Jong Nam, which took place Feb. 13 amid crowds of travelers at the airport, appeared to be a well-planned hit. Kim was dead within hours of the attack, in which two women went up behind him and appeared to smear something onto his face.The thick, oily poison was almost certainly produced in a sophisticated state weapons laboratory, experts say, and is banned under international treaties. North Korea, a prime suspect in the case, never signed that treaty, and has spent decades developing a complex chemical weapons program.On Saturday, police confirmed that a raid earlier in the week on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur was part of the investigation. Senior police official Abdul Samah Mat, who is handling the investigation, did not specify what authorities found there, but said the items were being tested for traces of any chemicals.Kim Jong Nam, who had been living abroad for years, was approached by the two women on Feb. 13 as he waited for a flight home to Macau. In grainy surveillance footage, the women appear to rub something onto his face before walking away in separate directions.VX is an extremely powerful poison, with an amount no larger than a few grains of salt enough to kill. An odorless chemical, it can be inhaled, swallowed or absorbed through the skin. Then, in anywhere from a few seconds to a few hours, it can cause a range of symptoms, from blurred vision to a headache. Enough exposure leads to convulsions, paralysis, respiratory failure and death.
                    							    		    			    				    				
					    						    						    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		       		    		    			    				    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		       		    		    			    				    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    					      			       		       		    									Yes, we said industry. What used to be thought of as petty theft is now a $30 billion a year business that retailers and law enforcement call "organized retail crime." It features roving bands of shoplifters, midlevel operatives who fence the stolen goods, and bosses who control the enterprise., had the drill down pat. From his apartment above the tavern he owned, Vendetti controlled a retail crime ring whose foot soldiersprofessional shoplifters known in the industry as "boosters"stole an estimated $700,000 worth of merchandise from big box stores and supermarkets. Then Vendetti and his team sold the goods online."It's a very large number of these boosters who would steal anything from a TV to flea medicine. They bring them back to him, and then he would resell it. And in this case, he was reselling it 50 cents on the dollar for retail value online," Sakovics said."The most valuable to them are things like designer apparel, anything with a brand name," Moraca said. "And then they move to high-end handbags, because they're high value and they're easy to move, and then we move into electronics, and that's laptop computers, iPads, cell phones, and all the accessories that go with that.""There's items like razors, men's and women's razors, and then there's teeth whitening strips, because those items are costly, and they're not that big, where they can get a lot of them off the shelf," Moraca said. "And then last but not least, for about the last decade, believe it or not, laundry detergent."Big name online marketplaces like eBay, once criticized by retailers for not doing enough to weed out stolen goods, have gotten much better at working with law enforcement and retailers, Moraca says. The problem is the proliferation of smaller marketplaces and auction sites, coupled with consumers looking for great deals.Also, beware of unusually low prices. Sure, a bargain is tempting, but not if the merchandise has been stolen. Besides, every piece of stolen merchandise costs retailers money, and the retailers pass those costs on to you. So while you may be getting a good price now, you will pay the price later on.The studio is finally giving fans what they've clamored for since Hugh Jackman first played the X-Men's marquee mutant nearly 17 years ago: an R-rated Wolverine movie. If the upcoming "Logan" which opens next Fridayis a success, it could be the start of a string of X-Men movies that embrace mature content, some say."Logan's momentum has continued to sharpen in a big way thanks to Fox's strong ad campaign and ecstatic reviews from critics. Social media buzz reflects significant interest driven by those factors as well as the film's R rating and Jackman's final turn as the iconic character," he said in an email.Yet Dergarabedian said he is not yet convinced Fox will move its flagship X-Men films in the same direction, because the the spirit of the property doesn't beg for it. A spinoff based on the "New Mutants" series featuring teenage characters and helmed by "The Fault in Our Stars" director Josh Boone also seems unlikely to get an R-rating.