entertainment-weekly
I know this feels preachy and boring and Im preaching to the choir but Im just lending my little voice to the chorus here, Affleck added. And saying that all of you, [if] you are struggling, youre doing it so, so well and speaking up and Im really proud to be a part of this community for that reason.And since the awards show is one of the fanciest events of the year, it would only make sense that the aforementioned toasting have some fancy touches as well. Below, youll find fun Oscars cocktail recipesinspired by each of the nine Best Picture nominees.Hosts John Mulaney and Nick Kroll invited actor Andy Samberg on stage to sing a parody of Pearl Jams Alive to celebrate those members of the Hollywood community who didnt die in 2016. Celebrities cited by Samberg as being still alive  the songs memorable chorus  included Milos Forman, Hailee Steinfeld, Tim Allen, and Matt Damon (a.k.a. Mattie D-Bones). Samberg friend Fred Armisen found his way into the song as well, but he fake died during the track, throwing the The WHCA takes note of President Donald Trumps announcement on Twitter that he does not plan to attend the dinner, which has been and will continue to be a celebration of the First Amendment and the important role played by an independent news media in a healthy republic, he said in part.Typically, a comedian hosts the dinnerin which they roast the president, other political figures, and the media. Larry Wilmore, Cecily Strong, Joel McHale, Conan OBrien, Jimmy Kimmel, and Seth Meyers have all hosted in past years. When Meyers hosted in 2011, he savaged Trump, who was in attendance and didnt seem pleased with the jokes. I didnt like his routine. His was too nasty, out of order, According to The Academy, the Board of Governors determined Russell communicated with his fellow members of the Sound Branch Executive Committee during the nominations phase tomake them aware of his work on the film.This violates official campaign rules, which state contacting Academy members by telephone to promote a film or achievement is expressly forbidden, even if such contact is in the guise of checking to make sure a screener or other mailing was received.The Board of Governors decision to rescind Mr. Russells nomination was made after careful consideration, Academy President Cheryl Boone Isaacs said in a statement. The Academy takes very seriously the Oscars voting process and anything  no matter how well-intentioned  that may undermine the integrity of that process.It is a sad day when a man who presided over the premier website of the Alt-Right, a loose-knit group of white nationalists and unabashed anti-Semites and racists  is slated to be a senior staff member in the peoples house,' Jonathan A. Greenblatt, ADL CEO, Before wrapping up, the pair shared some advice for stars at the event who may want to make political points in their speeches. Bear in mind we are on IFC and these are the Spirit Awards, so in terms of impact you could give your speech directly in the camera or you can whisper it to yourself in the bathroom, Mulaney joked. actor saunters onto the stage. Nailing his lines after a few minutes, Johnson pulls out his iPhone and asks a stagehand to snap a photo of him in a celebratory pose with the backdrop of the near-empty theatre. Spotting his own make-shift head-shot affixed to an orchestra seat, the Rock points and says, Oh, there I am!, wearing a sweatshirt and baseball cap turned backwards, snaps a commemorative selfie from the stage; David Oyelowo, with his wife and four kids in tow to watch him rehearse, claps when a winner is announced; Henson is handed an Oscar trophy to simulate presenting but instead pretends to steal it and runs off stage while giggling.,otherwise casually dressed in a gray hoodie and a black long coat,slips on a pair of high-heel shoes to practice walking across the Oscar stage. But once she learns her lines and gives out several pretend Oscars, McKinnon is right back in her flats  and out the door., directed byKelly Asbury, focuses on Smurfette, so its only appropriate that she get her own anthem. Trainor thanked her mom, Kelli Trainor, for helping her write the track in a post on Instagram. Thank you to my mama for helping me write this sassy/powerful song, the singer wrote.She wont admit it but she was by my side supporting me while I wrote it.. Its a song that I love and am very proud of, and I cant wait for the world to finally hear it! Getting to play a small part in the film with my character, SmurfMelody, makes this all the more exciting! So happy to be a part of the Smurfs family!!!