espn
No. 4 Arizona is about to host No. 5 UCLA on ESPN. The ViewFromVegas is the Wildcats are 2.5-point home favorites. Later, also on ESPN, No. 1 Gonzaga goes for an undefeated regular season against BYU. The Bulldogs are 20.5-point home favorites and are also an NCAA-best 20-5-1 ATS.Crisis fully averted: Lonzo Ball has played every minute of the second half for UCLA. He's up to 11 rebounds and five assists, to go with four points. One Pac-12 assistant coach told me this week he'd much rather try to make Ball a scorer than have him facilitating the offense.UCLA guard Lonzo Ball re-entered game after apparently landing on Isaac Hamilton's foot. He was holding his right ankle when he was on the bench. Ball didn't look like he was going full speed when he did play the last minute-plus and it could only get worse if being inactive during halftime causes his ankle to tighten up.UCLA size advantage over Arizona State is almost unfair. TJ Leaf with 10 of team's first 14 points. Bruins already with 6 offensive rebounds -- Sun Devils have just six total -- and 8 second chance points. It's compensated for UCLA otherwise going through the motions (5 turnovers) looking ahead to showdown with ArizonaFrom his perch next to Lakers executives Joey and Jesse Buss, Magic Johnson munched on popcorn Friday and surveyed his young, rebuilding squad play its first game since he ascended from a nebulous advisory position to president of basketball operations in a dramatic in-house bloodletting earlier this week that shook the franchise's foundation and the NBA landscape.Midway through the second quarter, Johnson joined the in-game broadcast on Spectrum SportsNet, and after preaching patience with repairing a team that has the NBAs third-worst record and has missed the playoffs for three consecutive seasons, he headed toward a nearby tunnel.Johnson oozes charisma, not to mention the legendary clout that comes with being one of the most exciting athletes in history -- winning five championships, achieving Basketball Hall of Fame status and putting together one of the most successful nonsports rsums of any player ever.But the task ahead of him is staggering -- a yearslong venture, at least -- and his lack of front-office experience justifiably gives many pause as to whether he is fully equipped to make the Lakers great again, no matter his other credentials or what he tweets or boasts during national media tours.Still, Johnson is the first to admit that he is up against a monumental feat, that there will need to be baby steps before giant leaps. On Thursday night, Johnson took several members of the teams coaching staff and front office to dinner at Mahogany Prime Steakhouse, a few blocks from their downtown Oklahoma City hotel, to lay out his vision and discuss ideas.Walton said the Lakers would love to have Johnson around as much as possible, and so far, Johnson has attended practices and even worked with players on individual moves. But Johnson likely wont attend many road games beyond Friday, which was a statement appearance, given the teams massive shakeup.As for losing, the Lakers wont have to try much, because they simply arent talented or experienced enough to even be competitive most nights, especially in the Western Conference. In other words, no "tanking" is necessary. But all those defeats will come in handy during the NBA draft lottery on May 16, as the Lakers are praying theyll be able to keep a top-three protected first-round draft pick.The outcome of that crucial draft lottery will help shape the Lakers immediate future, though their next 23 games are key for their young core to gain valuable experience and chemistry and to develop what Johnson hopes, as he said on Friday's broadcast, is an identity.As Chelsea have surged clear of a pack of faltering rivals at the top of the Premier League and the likes of Pep Guardiola, Jose Mourinho and Arsene Wenger have taken turns to proclaim them champions-in-waiting, the zeal of Antonio Conte's pleas for concentration has increased.On this evidence, his players are listening. Despite being caused considerable discomfort by a resurgent Swansea City side at Stamford Bridge, Chelsea continue to stave off the twin vices of anxiety and complacency that can plague so many teams that lead from the front.The omnipresent N'Golo Kante ensured that Swansea barely escaped their own half in the early moments and when Cesc Fabregas broke the deadlock on 19 minutes, darting into the penalty area to control Pedro Rodriguez's pass and poke the ball into the far corner, a 12th home win of the season felt inevitable.Fernando Llorente's header on the stroke of halftime was the kind of sucker-punch Chelsea have more regularly doled out to opponents since September, but the sense of deflation around Stamford Bridge was immediately remedied by the scheduled appearance of Frank Lampard on the pitch at the interval.Swansea showed greater ambition after halftime and, for a spell, roars of belief were displaced by groans of exasperation around the stands as the visitors gained a foothold. As so often in recent weeks, however, Pedro was the man to settle the nerves and switch the momentum.Receiving a pass from Fabregas, the winger turned infield and hit a curling, bouncing shot from 25 yards that fooled Lukasz Fabianski and nestled in the far corner. Pedro now has 11 goals in 19 matches since derailing Mourinho's game plan inside 30 seconds on this ground in October, many of them crucial.Few teams have played as well at Stamford Bridge this season as Swansea, but Chelsea continue to dispatch capable Premier League opponents convincingly even when below their best. The gap is 11 points now and the chasing pack have no cause for optimism.On the day when Stamford Bridge welcomed back Lampard, it was Fabregas who delivered the most fitting tribute. For much of the afternoon the Spaniard appeared to be channeling the spirit of the greatest goalscoring midfielder of his generation, in addition to displaying his more trademark gifts.The Spaniard's first late surge into the penalty area was his most effective but his attacking ambition tormented the Swansea defence throughout. Soon after his bouncing shot was tipped wide by Fabianski, while after halftime only the crossbar denied him.Conte's benching of Fabregas for Kante and Matic this season has understandably prompted speculation over the former Arsenal captain's future, and when he spoke of his frustration at the rise of power over talent in modern football recently, his words seemed those of a man aware that the game might be leaving him behind.But while Chelsea's midfield might be more physically imposing without Fabregas, it is undeniably still more dangerous with him. His ability to control the tempo and switch the point of attack gives Conte's team more possibilities, while his set-piece deliveries -- uncharacteristically poor on Saturday -- provide another, less heralded weapon.When Paul Clement was appointed Swansea manager at the beginning of January, reservations about his ability to succeed in the Premier League were compounded by a nightmarish run of fixtures that pitted them against Arsenal, Liverpool, Manchester City and Chelsea within the space of seven games.Swansea had taken 13 points prior to visiting Stamford Bridge and, until Pedro beat Fabianski, looked good value to repeat the draw they earned against Chelsea at the Liberty Stadium in September -- and might have got more had Cesar Azpilicueta been penalised for a handball in the penalty area.Chelsea did not struggle for chances in either half at Stamford Bridge, but a combination of poor finishing and dogged last-ditch defending kept Swansea in the match, while Llorente further underlined why Conte was interested in signing him in January.Despite their defeat, Swansea sit three points above the relegation zone, and their next four matches are against Burnley, Hull City, Bournemouth and Middlesbrough. Even if Leicester City's underachieving players rediscover some form now Claudio Ranieri is gone, Clement's team have the belief and momentum to be confident that it won't be at the expense of them."When I got to San Diego, it was hard to hit and easier to pitch, statistically,'' Black said. "The message there was, 'Hit the ball on the nose. Get your hits. Let's play a good solid game.' Here it's the other way. It's, 'Make good pitches. Don't walk anybody. Be fundamentally sound and let's go beat the other team.' For me it's sort of the opposite of what I dealt with before, which is exciting.''In their first 24 seasons, the Rockies tried Don Baylor, Jim Leyland, Buddy Bell, Clint Hurdle, Jim Tracy and Walt Weiss in the manager's seat and ranked last or next to last in the National League in ERA 18 times. Now they'll see if a crafty left-hander can solve the Coors Field Rubik's Cube. Black, who won 121 games over 15 big league seasons on the mound, joins Boston's John Farrell and Cincinnati's ) and invested money in high draft picks who failed to pan out. They focused on sinkerballers for a while, avoided curveballers, and got innovative in 2012 when they tried a four-man rotation and limited each starter to 75 innings. They even became a home for wayward geezers: In April 2012, 49-year-old "On top of talent, we need mentally tough SOBs,'' Black said. "We have to find and draft guys who are resilient, who'll bounce back from a tough outing where it might get chaotic in Coors and their ERA takes a hit. It might get a little bit unsightly when it pops up on the scoreboard or on TV. We have to have guys who will overlook that individual line -- who truly don't care about that.''The early signs for the young starters are encouraging. Gray, Bettis and Anderson all logged better numbers at home than on the road last year, and the Rockies posted a 4.70 team ERA after the All-Star break compared to a 5.08 mark before it. And if it's mental toughness Black desires, the kids have overcome enough obstacles to suggest they'll stick with it.Chatwood has survived two Tommy John surgeries. Anderson, a first-round pick out of the University of Oregon in 2011, missed the entire 2015 season with a stress fracture in his left elbow and was 26 when he made his big league debut last summer. And now Bettis is going through an ordeal that would test anyone; he was diagnosed with testicular cancer in November and had one of his testicles surgically removed. This week, Bettis told reporters that his latest blood work has revealed he's cancer-free.. While Butler failed to pan out in Denver and moved on to the Cubs organization in a recent trade, Gray went 10-10 with a 4.61 ERA in 2016, struck out 16 Padres in a shutout in September, and assumed the look of a workhorse. He also arrived at spring training looking a little like  -- with long, flowing blond hair that spilled below his shoulders. Gray is planning to get his hair cut soon and donate it to a charity called Locks of Love, which provides hairpieces for disadvantaged children suffering hair loss because of medical conditions.Amid the rigors of life at Coors Field, Gray and Bettis talk about the importance of "changing eye levels'' and becoming more visually aware. When throwing a breaking ball in Denver, Rockies pitchers have to train their eyes on a lower spot than they would on the road to ensure that the ball arrives at the same place. While that sounds simple enough, it takes discipline to do it pitch after pitch."We need mentally tough SOBs. We have to find and draft guys who are resilient, who'll bounce back from a tough outing where it might get chaotic in Coors and their ERA takes a hit. It might get a little bit unsightly when it pops up on the scoreboard or on TV."Black and Padres pitching coach Darren Balsley earned raves for turning around pitchers at Petco Park. In Denver, Black will continue to rely on a collaborative effort with pitching coach Steve Foster, who stresses the mental side of the game, and bullpen coach "It's no longer the elephant in the room,'' Bridich said. "We don't dwell on it, but we address it openly -- this misnomer that success can't be had at altitude from a pitcher's perspective. We're 25 years old now as an organization, and there are all different types of pitchers who've had success. A lot of it has to do with mental makeup and the belief guys have in themselves and each other. And some of it is about weeding out the noise.''When things get too loud, chaotic or just plain crazy at Coors this summer, Colorado's pitchers can count on Bud Black's calming voice gently guiding them back to earth. He's ready to bring the perspective and the encouragement. All they have to do is make the pitches.According to the Aurora Sentinel, Belibi's first-quarter dunk accounted for two of her game-high 21 points in Regis Jesuit's 64-35 win over Fort Collins. The win put Regis Jesuit (18-6) into the Sweet 16 of the Class 5A girls' state basketball tournament.. The citys southern hospitality already reminds Cousins of his hometown of Mobile, Alabama. Davis, the Pelicans and their fans have welcomed him with open arms, too. And despite a blowout 129-99 debut loss to the 3-point-happy Houston Rockets, Cousins says he is all in with the Pelicans and confident after more practice and time that they will be a playoff team. to the Pelicans a little easier to deal with. While Cousins still loves Sacramento and Kings fans, the big man whos big on trust will have a hard time ever getting on the same page with Kings owner Vivek Ranadive and general manager Vlade Divac, who he now views as cowards. in principle to trade the three-time NBA All-Star and forward Omri Casspi to the Pelicans for guards Buddy Hield, Tyreke Evans and Langston Galloway, and a first- and second-round draft pick. Cousins spoke with The Undefeated after his Pelicans debut, reflecting on his emotional and hurtful It was because of my [Kings assistant] equipment manager [Miguel Lopez], who has been there since my rookie season. He was emotional right away. He just put me in a place. I havent cried in a long time. It just broke me down. It hit me like, This s is really happening. It was something that I never expected to happen. I was also told [a trade] wouldnt happen, so A week before the trade. The sick part about it is that Vlade came in my house with my agent [Jarinn Akana]. We sat in my theater and just talked. That was maybe three weeks ago. We sat there and [he] told me what moves he wanted to make. All of that. I just didnt understand.I heard the rumors before the game. But Ive heard rumors the last four years about me being traded. It was like, Whatever. When they sat me down with the media after the game, my PR guy at the time [Chris Clark] said, There is serious talk about you possibly being moved.It was something instilled in me. I am going to take it back to my AAU days. My first coach, Danny [Pritchett], I love him to this day. He was the first coach to pump me up to play basketball. Nobody wanted me. Nobody cared to put me on a team. Danny worked with me day and night. My freshman year in high school, I became a hell of a basketball player. We were just some low-budget AAU team. We were selling donuts and doing car washes to make money just to make it to the tournament.All the big AAUs, Alabama Challenge, they started sending gifts and doing whatever to try to reel me in. My mom said, Those people didnt care about you, and all of a sudden they are going to try to reel you in. Thats not how you operate. You go with who cared about you from the jump. Even then, it wasnt easy. I didnt get the exposure because I wasnt with the big team with Nike or Adidas. But I just stuck with it, and things gradually worked with me into my favor.In high school, the same thing. Maybe when I was in college [at Kentucky], at my biggest stage, is when I got all the exposure. But to me, Ive always gotten it the hard way. It never came easy for me. Im kind of used to it. No matter what, Ive always found a way to find some success. And when I was in that situation with [the Kings], I felt it was the exact same thing. My time will come when its my time. Those are guys that took a chance on me. Im sticking to it. Im going to make it work. That wasnt the case.Its bigger than basketball. Its bigger than the Kings organization. Its bigger than that. The relationships I built out there, Im more hurt by that. Being away from those relationships and the community, Im more hurt by that because of the dishonesty and all that s with the organization.Nah. For what? It was a coward move, so Im pretty sure I will get a coward response. For what? And Ive seen this happen before. Ive been there through all same types  I was there with [coach] Mike Malones [firing]. Ive seen how they operate. I know what kind of answer I will get anyway. So, what is the point?Ive always had that issue. Ive had personal conversations with my agent about that and the whole situation anyway. He tried to steer me in their direction. And Im like, Nah, I can see through that s. Ive always had my doubts. When it comes to that, Im usually 90 percent. I knew it. But it was just told to me [no trade] so much.For some reason, I guess people expected a championship. I know the reality of it. Weve had one practice and a shootaround. This isnt something that is just going to happen overnight. Do we look good on paper? Yes. But being good on paper doesnt win games.It has been amazing. It has been great. Everybody has been good. I went looking for a condo, so I had to go walking around downtown. The people. Its crazy. Im so comfortable here because its literally like home, Mobile. Im used to those kind of people. Its normal to me. It feels good.Some NFL teams have a lot to do before the new league year begins March 9, while others won't have to make critical calls until the first day of the NFL draft on April 27. Click on the links below to read about the first five things that should be on the minds of each team's brass as they prepare for the offseason.My projections are conservative, as it's tough to tell how much teams will spend now that the salary cap has jumped to $168 million this year. So I'm judging only each player's market value, which doesn't account for teams blowing up that value with mega-deals. I'm also not including  is the highest-paid back -- the three-year deal he signed in 2015 averaged $14 million per year -- but he won't be playing at that number next season. He could be released outright, or the Vikings will restructure his deal. The next-highest-paid back is The expression is part confusion, part concern. In moments like this, when Johnson's mind begins to buffer toward the download of an answer he seeks, his face tends to stiffen to a distant blank stare, eyes narrowed and aimed toward the horizon, beyond the minutia directly before him.The phone rings again. This time Johnson snatches it up and holds it before him, facing outward, revealing the caller's identity to an expanding Facebook viewing audience. It's his boss, NASCAR team owner Rick Hendrick, winner of 12 Cup championships and a newly minted NASCAR Hall of Famer."He never ceases to surprise me, what he's into or doing," Johnson says. "Who would ever think he's watching Facebook Live? He's so well-mannered, such an amazing businessman, so it's easy to be serious with him. But deep down he's one of the biggest kids I know. He's a knucklehead."That's the part I get to see that many don't see. That's a great privilege. There were a couple more times I saw him after that Facebook Live [scenario], and he'd just start laughing [and saying,] 'I can't believe you wouldn't take my call!' He'd tell everybody around him."Three days after that Johnson-Hendrick exchange in November, in the hours before he would pass 39 competitors in 400 miles to pen a shocking new chapter to his championship legacy, Johnson stands outside his motor home in the Florida sunshine and retells the Hendrick call-screening story to a group of friends and coworkers. are forever appreciated. They are Hall of Fame drivers. They are pioneers. They are copyrights. But the way they produced championships and the way Johnson produced championships aren't the same. The way NASCAR championships are produced changed, and the business evolved."In Richard Petty's era, racing on dirt, and more than once a week, they built their own cars with about three guys," Bowyer said. "Jimmie Johnson has 500 guys. So it's hard to judge and gauge places in history for anybody, no matter how great they are.Chevrolet gave Johnson credibility with race teams, even when he says he didn't deserve it. They aligned him with the Busch Series (now Xfinity) team Herzog Motorsports, whose thrifty spending habits, excellent tutelage and tremendous patience aligned perfectly with Johnson's asphalt-racing learning curve.Looking back now, seated in the bar of a downtown Charlotte restaurant, sipping a local brew through the windbreaker mustache connected to the beard he grew and tested and cured (and only rarely manicured) on the crystal slopes of Colorado all winter, Johnson still can't believe the dirt road from East County led to the deepest pages on NASCAR's history book.Another longtime friend, Chris Tucker, notes that in retrospect it's easy to see that the puzzle pieces of Johnson's life all matched up to this. The off-road background and humble upbringing made him adaptable and appreciative. So of course Hendrick would hire him and Lowe's Home Improvement would sponsor him."There's no clear path for this coming from El Cajon [California], I can promise you," Tucker says. "He's Tom Brady -- the sixth-round draft pick and then some. Back in high school, Jimmie might not be the guy you would have identified to attain this level of success. But I'm sure glad it was him. No one else would have handled it all the way he has.""Johnson would always be on the phone, and our other buddy would be detailing the cars -- I don't think Johnson ever washed a single car," Johnston says. "He probably still hasn't ever washed a car. He was on the phone trying to pave the road to where he is today."On the drive from his home in El Cajon to the first test session, Jimmie Johnson realized he had an issue -- his ride was a Ford Ranger. Upon arrival, he tried to park it out of sight. He failed. The racing program manager eventually saw his truck, and asked whose it was.Within a week, Johnson was told to head to the Chevy dealer. There was a program S-10 with his name on it. By 1995 he was racing those off-road trucks, but Chevy didn't have the budget to give him what's called a "pre-runner," a truck used by off-road racers to pretest, survey and learn the desert courses they would soon race. These pre-runs lasted for weeks.Without a test truck to run, Johnson simply used those program trucks. He wore them out, spending three weeks running full-bore through the desert and then hopping on Interstate 10 to drive home to El Cajon. Once, he and the boys turned a pre-run into a camping trip, and as the afternoon reached the nighttime, they saw another friend, a guy named Slip, on a lover's stroll down the beach.Johnson hopped in, hollered at Slip, fired up the S-10, and proceeded to launch it off a berm -- straight into the Pacific Ocean. The tide had come in since the last time they jumped it. The truck bottomed out, launching it onto its nose upon landing. The grill and the radiator were blown out of it. Substantial repair was required just to get it home. More repair was required to return it to Chevy.In the late 90s, Dolan said, Johnson was driving an ARCA car at Daytona, and Chevy helped with minimal funding and decals on the machine. At a banquet soon thereafter, Johnson approached Dolan with a panoramic picture of the car, a handshake and a promise: "I promise you someday I'll make Chevy really proud."Johnson's plan all along was to ascend to Cup with Herzog Motorsports. That was also the team's plan, but it never materialized. So Johnson began working the phones. He said he talked to Joe Gibbs Racing president J.D. Gibbs at every opportunity, wearing the grass bare around Johnson's Lake Norman home, in an effort to drive the No. 20 Rockwell Automation car.A meeting was called at Concord Regional Airport near Charlotte. At the table are Johnson, Ranier and part-owner Felix Sabates. Ganassi's plane lands. In he walks, briefcase in hand. The foursome chats for 10 or 15 minutes about who would build the cars and engines, and who the crew chief might be.Johnson wasn't pleased. He was anxious and extremely frustrated by the meeting, and concerned that he'd thrown away his only shot. A Cup Series opportunity is the dream of every stock car racer from Lake Norman to Lake Tahoe. There may never be another opportunity.Jimmie bought a one-way ticket to North Carolina. He ran a few races, but the relationship was short-lived. The team was outmanned. More often than not Johnson and his girlfriend were pushing the car through the pits and up into prerace technical inspection.After a few laps, he stops on the track between Turns 1 and 2, just as security vehicles scream up from both sides. The guards, all riled up, wonder aloud if the perpetrator in the Suburban belongs. Upon realizing it's Johnson, they relent and move along.