fox-sports
He cant play sports for a full year, Henrys father said via phone Saturday from South Elgin, Illinois. His baseball career for a year is done. Its going to be a long, boring summer for him. But hes better every day, which is good. And were slowly working with the school to transition him back.For Rizzo, it is natural to reach out to kids in need he was once such a kid himself, diagnosed with Hodgkins lymphoma in April 2008. He was 18 at the time, less than one year removed from being the Red Soxs sixth-round pick out of Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland.More major leaguers do extensive charity and community work than fans know. Clubs nominate the most diligent for the Roberto Clemente Award; Rizzo was the Cubs nominee last season; the Mets Curtis Granderson the overall winner. But by and large, most players understand their unique platform.Henry is the youngest of the four Sembdner children. The elder Henry is a superintendent for a construction company. His wife, Karen, is an administrative assistant for a fire protection company, but taking a leave absence to care for her son (donors, A Cubs C, 6 feet in diameter, is painted on the Sembdners garage door. The elder Henry said he honored the late Ron Santo by putting his name and number on the corner of the door. He saves all kinds of Cubs memorabilia, but my name is not Rockefeller, so I can only collect so much.These nine players wont break the bank and cash in on contracts that pay them north of $15 million per year. Theyll be bargains on the open market who will be difference-makers in Year 1 with their new teams. When it comes to getting the biggest bang for thebuck, teams should look no further than these underrated players.Patterson has been a disappointementin the NFL up to this point. He hasnt carved out a consistent role in Minnesota and is more of a gadget player than he is a true wide receiver. Thats OK. Because of his struggles thus far, his cost will be lower than it probably should be. Someone like the Patriots or Colts can figure out a way to utilize his skill set to suit their offense best, while also benefiting from his ability to return kicks. Heck, he could be converted to full-time running back and thrive in that role. He just needs the right team to take a chance on him.Leary was viewed as a backup guard before this season. When Lael Collins went down with an injury, though, Leary stepped in and proved to be every bit a starter in the NFL. Thoughhe wont be cheap, per se, he also wont break the bank the way Kevin Zeitler and T.J. Lang will. As a full-time starting guard, hell be a reliable pass blocker and a solid blocker in the running game. He just needs an opportunity. A team like the Jaguars would benefit from adding Leary to itsline.The Texans are loaded on the defensive line, from Jadeveon Clowney to J.J. Watt. Simon has seen his snaps limited a bit as a result, but he can rush the passer and provide a boost as an outside linebacker. Hes not big enough to be a full-time defensive end, but in sub-packages he can certainly get into a three-point stance and get after the QB.Ateam looking to add a veteran quarterback at a low cost  *cough* the Jets  should give Hoyer a close look. He started five games for the Bears this past season before breaking his arm, throwing for 1,445 yards, six touchdowns and no interceptions. Its the second straight year hes played relatively well in spot duty, proving he can be a reliable backup for some team out there. He played on a one-year, $2 million deal in Chicago, and while hell likely get more than that this offseason, he wont be terribly expensive.Doyle had a good season with the Colts in 2016, catching 59 passes for 584 yards and five touchdowns. He wont make as much as Martellus Bennett in free agency, which is why hell be a good bargain. For someone like the Giants or Jets who need a pass-catching tight end, Doyle would be a nice addition at a relatively low cost. Hes not a great blocker, but hes good enough to hold up at the line of scrimmage.Because the Patriots are so deep at safety, Harmon never really got an opportunity to play meaningful snaps. When he has, though, hes made an impact. In four seasons (just 12 starts), Harmon picked off seven passes in his role as a center field safety. He has good range and ball skills to eliminate plays over the top, and he figures to get even better as his role increases. With Eric Berry and Tony Jefferson the top safeties available, Harmon is a good second-tier guy.Webster played only 59 snaps this past season, but that was because he was blocked on the depth chart by the strongest cast of starting cornerbacks in the NFL. Hes been forced to resort to being a special teams contributor, but by changing teams this offseason, hell be given a much bigger role. The former third-round pick has talent, which he showed as a rookie in 2013 -- he just needs an opportunity. He wont get that behind Aqib Talib, Chris Harris Jr. and Bradley Roby, which is why hes bound to leave Denver.Jackson is one of the top big-play receivers in the league, and has been for years. Some teams may be turned away by his age, but his skills havent deteriorated much at all. He can still step in right away and completely change an offense by providing it with a guy who can blow the top off of a defense, draw safeties deep down the field and open up underneath routes for other receivers. That alone makes him a valuable addition, even if he only catches 55 passes. The threat to score anywhere on the field is huge.Hyde isnt often discussed among the top free agent DBs but he deserves to have his name mentioned. A Swiss army knife in the secondary, Hyde can do it all: play center field, cover the slot, move down into the box, blitz the quarterback. There isnt much he cant do on the football field, and hes a valuable special teams guy who can return punts and kickoffs. Oh, and he just turned 26 years old.And no one could have blamed Patterson if he decided to leave.Remember, former five-star quarterback Jarrett Stidham announced he was leaving Baylor last year after Art Briles was fired, and other players have left other schools (Penn State, USC) when NCAA sanctions hit and bowl bans were handed out. While Ole Miss obviously self-imposed its ban (NCAA punishment awaits) it would have been easy for Patterson to start over elsewhere.The next-to-last caution came with 16 to go and taking out top contender Elliott Sadler, among others. Sadler won the first two stages of the event and led a race-high total of 40 laps before the accident that was just one of three huge ones on the day as the race lasted well over three hours.The first came aftera restart on Lap 23 following a caution, Scott Lagasse Jr. mistimed a bump draft on Tyler Reddick in front of him, sending Reddick sideways and into the heart of the field. Getting the worst of the multi-car wreck were Spencer Gallagher and Blake Koch  but they were far from alone.On Lap 29, the No. 21 Richard Childress Racing Chevrolet of Daniel Hemric appeared to drift ever so slightly up the track as it went into Turn 3  clipping the left rear quarter-panel of the No. 7 JR Motorsports Chevy of Justin Allgaier in the process.That sent Allgaiers car sideways into high-speed traffic, setting off a chain reaction of calamity. Among the additional collateral damage: the cars of Erik Jones, Daniel Suarez, Darrell Wallace Jr., Brandon Jones, Chris Cockrum, Harrison Rhodes, Brandon Hightower, Matt Tifft, Scott Lagasse Jr. and Blake Koch.Hemric told FOX Sports that he thought his car might have slipped in some of the Speedy-Dry and oil residue that was still left on the track from the wreck just a few laps earlier. But Suarez had another idea about what might have contributed to the unexpected melee.Sadler won the first two stages, each lasting 30 laps. He took the second one under caution after yet another accident on Lap 59, when Brad Keselowski badly misjudged a bump-draft attempt on Brennan Poole and sent Poole into the outside wall, where Pooles No. 48 car took a secondary hit from the No. 11 of Blake Koch.If someones around you and they ever say, `I will never send my daughter to Baylor. You knock them right in the face, Mulkey said.Because these kids are on this campus. I work here. My daughter went to school here and its the damn best school in America.Im just tired of hearing it. Im tired of people talking on it on a national scale that dont know what theyre talking about, she said. If they didnt sit in those meetings and they werent a part of the investigation, youre repeating things that you heard. Its over. Its done. This is a great institution, and I would send my daughter here, and I would pay for anyone elses daughter to come here. I work here every day. Im in the know. And Im tired of hearing it. This is a great institution. The problems that we have at Baylor are no different than the problems at any other school in America. Period. Move on. Find another story to write.The Utah Jazz selected Williams with the No. 3 overall pick in the 2005 Draft. For a few years, he was considered on the same level as the likes of Chris Paul and Tony Parker. A falling out in Utah led to a trade to the Nets, and Williams never reached that same level again.Brandon Jones (33) and Justin Allgaier (7) hit the Turn 4 wall extremely hard after getting the worst end of a nine-car wreck triggered by Daniel Hemric in the No. 21 Richard Childress Racing Chevy. Erik Jones in the No. 20 Joe Gibbs Racing Toyota was also involved in the crash.