mashable
Really America? The woman literally wrote a book about magic possums called little Hush and Grandma Poss  there's nothing nicer than that. Naturally, Australian Twitter reacted with outrage, and plenty of jokes about the location of known trouble maker, "the green sheep."Writer/director Barry Jenkins' deeply resonant cinematic tryptich of a young Miami man's life won all six Independent Spirit Awards for which it was nominated Saturday  including the first award given away, and the last  a triumphant result for the film many hope can upset  described as an "embarrassment to propaganda films," took home raspberry-shaped trophies for "Worst Picture," "Worst Director," "Worst Actor" (for D'Souza, who plays himself, in dramatized parts) and "Worst Actress" (for breakout Becky Turner, who played Hillary Clinton)."It all came down to two decidedly different examples of cinematic sludge: The $250 million comic book oop-us 'Batman v Superman' and the faux right wing 'documentary' 'Hillary's America: The Secret History of the Democratic Party,'" a Razzies spokesperson said in a statement. for Android users. Google's set to redesign its main texting app with Android Messages, which uses an updated Rich Communications Services (RCS) rather than SMS. This'll give users a feature-rich experience, including things like stickers, read receipts, and other things we've come to expect from messaging apps these days, finally:'s nominations are in the same category best original songmeaning the most it could win is 13. But it won't, because there are two categories where it just doesn't have the goods: Best Actor (Ryan Gosling) and Best Original Screenplay (Chazelle).It'll be close. Linus Sandgren's camera twirls and dances right along with Seb and Mia, exploring spaces and whip-panning with big payoffs  but there are some odd out-of-focus moments and barely-correctible darkness issues in the now-famed opening sequence. But this category is typically awarded to the most noticeable and risk-taking work. Advantage: a. Chazelle took the Director's Guild Award and this award is firmly his to lose. And that's a great thing! As one inspiringly hopeful Oscar observer (and Jenkins backer) told me: "I'm thinking of this as Game 1 between Barry and Damien in a 7-game series. Damien will probably pull it out even without playing the best game." Sounds like the start of something wonderful and new, no?"Audition (The Fools Who Dream)" and "City of Stars" are competing against one another here, but no matter: "City of Stars" will prevail  it serves as the film's de facto theme and is one point a duet. Sorry Lin-Manuel Miranda, but that EGOT will have to wait.The series, co-produced with Sylvester Stallone, pits 108competitors from the U.S., Brazil, South Korea, Mexico, Germany and Japan (18 from each country) against one another. They all take their shot at running a physically demanding obstacle course called The Beast."Netflix has been different in the fact that there are 'no rules,'" Broome said. "The creative freedom of the platform and the support from the Netflix team to push the envelope  for example, having every episode open completely differently, made this experience unique for me  it allowed me to challenge myself as a producer and not have to worry about any constraints. I loved that.""Nothing like this has ever been attempted," he said. "From the 4k media storage alone with that many cameras to the way the show was colored and treated was a groundbreaking experience. In many ways, the editing equipment needed is barely ready to handle what we attempted.""It was unbelievably challenging and rewarding to take these episodes and make six different localized country versions," Broome said. "I felt that each of the countries involved should feel that this series was made specifically for them  and I feel thats what we were able to achieve in each case. While the physical runs are the same across all country versions, there were many localized pieces that showcased that countrys competitors as well as their own local hosts. This allowed us to create the proper tone and vibe for each country; so for example, the tone of the series in Germany is very different than that in Mexico or Brazil. It was one of the biggest differentiating factors in any show of this type."