mtv-news
o help us, if my generation makes it to middle age, the speech with which I will bore any young person who will listen before returning to their 200-BPM turbo-hardcore will go like this: There was a time when the internet was the Wild West, its terrain shaped by obsessives and nerds instead of algorithms and brands. To immerse oneself in this strange, communal DIY project was to build, bit by bit, ones idea of utopia. And for music lovers, this era  specifically the post-Xanga, pre-Twitter era of the mid-to-late 2000s  was a straight-up revelation. The music industry hadnt yet rebounded from the crash in physical album sales, subscription-based streaming services were still a niche market, and for an exhilarating few years, we were in charge. Thoughtfully curated Myspace playlists blasted the songs that defined us (though wed had some practice artfully capitalizing lyrics in AIM away messages) and let artists learn to control their own digital distribution. And whether your preferred rabbit hole involved obscure Italo disco 12-inch rips, Houston rap oddities, emo bands from nondescript suburbs, or babys-first-Logic-experiment electro remixes, there were blogs to be explored for days, run by fellow geeks with day jobs and sprinkled with now-extinct Zshare and Megaupload links to gloriously low-bit mp3s. We had unprecedented access and a platform bound only by our own resourcefulness. Major-label A&Rs were frantically taking notes. The kids had beat The Man at his own game. Kudos to the business, though  they took control back, Antoine Reed, better known as Sir Michael Rocks, says wryly over his burger and fries in a nondescript bar on Chicagos North Side. There was a moment in time where they didnt know what the fuck to do, though, and that was fun.That was tight! laughs Evan Ingersoll, a.k.a. Chuck Inglish. If anyone gets it, these guys get it. Back then, you knew them as The Cool Kids  two college-age Midwestern beatmakers-turned-rappers who bonded over their love of hard-ass, 1989-style percussion, weird Super Mario sounds, BMX bikes, and gold Run-DMC dookie ropes. (Less as a throwback, mind you, than because they simply looked dope. I never seen anybody with a platinum chain on that I was like, , Ingersoll explains. Thats not tight to me.) Too savvy to shop themselves out to labels, the duo spent years sharing tracks exclusively through Myspace or mp3 blogs before they even released an official EP. By then, Ingersoll and Reed were local legends, internet cult faves, and were buzzing on the festival circuit; 2008s   whose title sounded more ironic with every pushback  didnt arrive till 2011. When it finally did, it felt more like a statement about how they never really needed a Capital-A Album in the first place than it did a victory lap. The moment was over, and Ingersoll and Reed knew it. It wasnt worth trying to piss in the wind, cause that shit was flying back in peoples faces, says Ingersoll. I know when the partys over. Always been that guy. Ive never been at the party when the cops came, aint never been in the party when motherfuckers started tripping  Ive always been home. The party cant last forever. But you can have the party somewhere else. And you can bring the party back. Its still  it.The Cool Kids officially, and amicably, disbanded in 2011. Reed signed to Curren$ys Jet Life Recordings, Ingersoll started his own Sounds Like Fun imprint, and for the next five years, the two released a steady stream of solo projects. Ingersoll would pop up on the occasional Reed song, and vice versa, but in  from 2015, Reed made the message clear to anyone still holding on to the past: THE COOL KIDS ARE NEVER COMING BACK. IM SORRY. SH*T WAS TIGHT ... BUT IM ACTUALLY WAY BETTER NOW IF U WLD STOP BEIN A D*CK & LET ME LIVE." And that was pretty much that.. The Cool Kids are back forreal. The Hiatus is over. We missed being us. We refuse to let people down and not be the actual group. We been through too much... I had really lost my mind this summer. I was losing motivation. All I wanted to do was bring back The Cool. Reed kept it brief: EVERYTHING ELSE CAN WAIT. THE WORLD IS FUCKN TRIPPIN RIGHT NOW I JUST WANT SHIT TO FEEL GOOD AGAIN. That was July 2016. And later tonight, on a single-digit-degree December weekday in Chicago, The Cool Kids will play their first hometown show as a duo in more than half a decade.ut back to before the internet started sucking. The story goes that Reed and Ingersoll met on Myspace, which isnt entirely true  the two had a mutual friend through making beats, and Ingersoll hit Reed up through Myspace since he didnt have his cell number. Ingersoll had moved from Detroit to Chicago for college, and Reed, a few years younger, was a high school senior born and raised on the South Side. They met up to collab on some beats  That was the cool thing to do back then, Reed says  until Reed revealed that he rapped, too. And thus, The Cool Kids were born. Anyone whos tried to build an online empire knows by now that its never really sustainable if it isnt grounded in the real world. The Cool Kids might have appeared to spring from Myspace fully formed, but if you partied in Chicago in the late 2000s, you know that was only half the story. When theres a subculture, theres always a place it came out of, Ingersoll says. The reggae club that the punk scene started out of in London. Garage music. House music comes from Chicago house parties and basement parties. It has to start somewhere, you know? And for us, it was Town Hall parties. The Town Hall scene is so under-covered and so under-described, but its where everything starts., on which local musicians acted as tour guides to their hometowns. Its 2006. In between a juked-out South Side block party and a Lupe Fiasco intro to the West Side, we meet Kid Sister outside Town Hall Pub, an unassuming, sticky-floored dive in Boystown (a North Side neighborhood thats mostly gay bars and Cubs fans). The rapper born Melisa Young is getting ready for Get Out the Hood, a weeknight party that her brother Josh Young started throwing in 05 with Curt Cameruci, the other half of his locally beloved but nationally unknown DJ duo Flosstradamus. Kid Sister had grown so used to casually MCing the party, shed figured she might as well start rapping for real; the next year, her Fools Gold single Pro Nails would get a Kanye West remix. Floss, whose setup involved four turntables and two mixers, were Chicagos answer to Diplo and Low-Bs Hollertronix. Cameruci was a former drumnbass DJ from Michigan; the Young siblings grew up in the South Side suburb of Markham, the hometown of DJ Spinn and the late DJ Rashad. Their first track (uploaded, obviously, to Myspace) was . A YouTube video uploaded the same year shows Josh Young passing Jell-O shots from a cafeteria tray to anyone in arms reach as Cameruci plays the Bulls intro theme from a dilapidated stage, complete with an ancient karaoke screen. Get drunk, niggas! hollers a baby-faced Reed in a gold chain over a graphic tee. Later, he and Ingersoll perform Fresher Than You, never officially released beyond Myspace and Zshare links: I dont even walk to the whip no more / Chicks just pick me up and carry me to my car. Hollywood Holt and Million $ Mano pop up to perform local hit Caked Up. In between rap sets, Young and Camerucis set is probably something like Three 6 Mafia into The Dismemberment Plan into DJ Deeon. Party photographers  remember those?  snap messy candids to be posted the next day on EveryoneIsFamous, Chicagos slightly more savory equivalent of The Cobrasnake. Everything smells like spilled Old Style pitchers.That era was the height, to me, of musical discovery, Ingersoll tells me, finishing his beer. IPods were about to get to their peak. There were sections in Barnes & Noble that you could find every kind of production magazine. Everybody was curious about music, and it still wasnt as accessible. Unless you had the software-to-gear hybrid, there wasnt a ton of DJs, because you still had to know how to DJ. Now were in an era where everybodys a musician, so they stand around and judge. The events today run by these tastemakers will never be what Floss created. What I mostly remember about the Town Hall scene  even as it grew beyond Town Hall and took over the city at large  was how inclusive it felt, even to folks who werent local celebrities. That was the beautiful part about it. You saw everyone having a great time together, Ingersoll recalls. Youll see somebody dressed in a throwback looking like he was straight out of the goddamn Roc-A-Fella Dream Team album, and then a dude with a biker hat, and girls with fuckin Doc Marten boots, and theyre all sharing beer off the same pitcher. Thats what created The Cool Kids. In that incubator, we saw what our world looked like, and thought: The Town Hall parties eventually faded out as its originators found themselves in Chicago less and less, but the scene didnt die so much as dissolve into the mainstream. For as many local rap careers as the party ignited, it was more about complete dissolution of genre  an ethos that was catching on, as rap bled into pop, R&B merged with rap, and EDM exploded into everything. Flosstradamus ditched the four turntables to focus on original productions, and they were a global EDM phenomenon a few years later. For Reed and Ingersoll, the unassuming dive bar had opened up a new world of opportunities. Through Flosstradamus, theyd become friends with DJs like Diplo, Steve Aoki, and A-Trak, who was dating Kid Sister and touring with Kanye. It was A-Trak whod The dance music from the Town Hall era may have had a broader long-lasting appeal than the rap, but Ingersoll and Reed say they've been taking notes for their comeback. No, its not a dance record  what The Cool Kids are after is universality. Everything came out of that scene, Ingersoll says emphatically. To see what theyve spread out and created is why I know what is going on with us is perfect for right now. Like, Flosstradamus played   their first commercially available release, still generally considered the duos magnum opus. Listening today, the 10-track EP holds up almost bafflingly well compared to other 2008 artifacts. What critics then considered retro about Ingersolls production now feels timeless, the minimal, ClipsemeetsBeastie Boys drum machines suspended by their own force of gravity. Thats part of why Reed and Ingersoll arent jumping to canonize the nearly decade-old project  critics mostly loved it but never really  it. Designations as retro rap, or, worse, hipster rap, couldnt help but make the duo feel misunderstood. It was crazy because, you know, Im from here, I came from out South. So there was none of that, Reed remembers. I never even heard the term hipster until I started getting a little more prominent on the rap scene. So when I started getting labeled as that, I was like,  And we were like, how? It was just us being friends with a multicultural cast who liked the same things. We were struggling with it at first, but now I own up to the shit. We were cool! I think that our style allowed people a comparison for our sound. But it sounded new. He pauses, marinating for a moment over his burger. Nothing that we ever did was intended to be the way it was perceived. We just took it and ran with itand once they made a clear decision on us, we tried to change it, like,  episodes, released singles on Fools Gold and Mountain Dews newly instated Green Label Sound, and played pretty much every festival imaginable. The duo managed to avoid painting themselves into a corner; theyd guest on a song with the Bloody Beetroots, a Dim Mak electro duo known for DJing in Spiderman masks, then hop on a song with Gary, Indianas Freddie Gibbs. If anything was changing, it was the environment in which theyd originally thrived  the internet. Myspace users were in rapid decline, phased out by Facebook and game-changing newcomer Twitter. Social media as a promotion and distribution tool was no longer unique; it was becoming the norm. Everyone was an aspiring tastemaker, and formerly DIY sites and events were rapidly overtaken by corporate sponsorship. And that gap between artist and fan that had been narrowing for years was starting to get weird.That mystique started to fall away, says Reed. You could see when your favorite artist was taking a shit, or when they were eating oranges, or when theyre with the dog. I remember artists that I used to look up to in high school  there was still that huge separation. I could never have a convo, never do a track with them, have them hear my music. It was unheard of. But with our wave, that fell to the wayside. Kids would come up to us, and if they had a rap Id check it out; if it sucked, Id be like, Damn, that sucked. Since then, everything is live, every artist never turns the camera off. They want you to talk to them all day now. He shrugs. I dont really condone it, but thats whats happening.Our bigger cultural figures that came from the generation prior  like early 2000s  got completely lost in translation as to what was going on, adds Ingersoll. Like, we had AIM, we had Friendster, we had Myspace, we had BlackPlanet. We were socially network trained. Theres certain things you dont share. That was what Myspace was about  you built that wall! You was honest, but there was a wall. Well give it to these three YouTube stars, and theyre gonna do this dance Reed says, imitating a scheming A&R. Theyre acting like new artists are indie when they have a million-dollar budget. Thats the weirdest thing to me. Cause they know that kids hate it when theres some manufactured artist shoved down their throats, so theyre like, That might change soon, Ingersoll adds. "This new wave of college kids that are coming in the next two years, theyre so intelligent because theyve never lived without the internet and they can source everything on their own, he says. I believe theyre gonna start a revolution. Theyre gonna be like, MEMES! Reed repeats with a resigned laugh. And I love funny memes. But its like: A meme to me is a funny thing, but its also a dirty thing. Like, its passed around between so many people touching it that its, like, nasty! Like, ughhh! Its a filthy thing, in a sense. People are turning music into memes. Everything is a meme now.Man, they really need to let presidents be presidents and then we have, like, a United States mascot, Reed says. Hell dab, hell dance, hell do the Mannequin Challenge. And then let the president be a little Bernie Sanders nerd guy in the back, who actually knows what hes doing and is gonna make shit work. We conflict ourselves with making our president also our mascot. We lose ourselves with that.By 2011, The Cool Kids couldnt shake the feeling that the party was over. Name the difference between 2011 and 2015  fucking nothing, Ingersoll says, still horrified. Maybe, like, mohawks  motherfuckers had mohawks. They were wearing leather pants and all these hats with a whole bunch of spikes.Oh my god, the swag era, Reed chimes in. "Everybody looked like Bowser. They had the spikes from Sonic. A lot of Versace patterns, vintage Versace belts used as chains and bracelets. We had to get out of that. It was a dark time. Thats when we were like, Something felt different, though, when Ingersoll and Reed got to 2016. This was over the summertime, Reed recalls. Back-to-back-to-back-to-back crazy shit started happening. Everybody was dying. Police killings. Ordinary-day people were getting mad., shit like that, says Ingersoll. As a human on this planet, I dont want to be the guy  He trails off for a moment. I always bring up Outkast. There should be no fucking reason theyre not making records. I dont know their situation, but thats bullshit. I always told myself, when I became an artist and it started to work  the shit I always wanted my favorite artists to do, that they never did, I was gonna do. Like, man, it wouldve been tight if Kanye just got his MPC back, put on a white tee and a goddamn Jesus piece chain, got a haircut from More than a decade older than when they started, in a barely recognizable cultural landscape, The Cool Kids decided to hit restart. But how do you win over a Lil Uzi Vert fan with no context for what made them cool in the first place? Those kids, their older brother looked up to us, Ingersoll assures me. Theres things that you wouldnt be able to do if we didnt do. If Mikey wasnt walking around rocking skinny peach jeans with some Jordans you aint never seen, you wouldnt think that shit was tight. Wearing what we wanted, we was hearing boos before we even came out on the stage, you know what Im saying? We did a New York show with Pharoahe Monch in 2008; I had a full Adidas sweatsuit situation, and I heard someone scream, Looking back, thats what Reed and Ingersoll seem to feel most proud of, and not just in terms of aesthetics. Our role was to kick that door open, man, says Reed. Shit was stale, it was not fun, and it was very polarized toward one thing, especially when it came to peoples perception of black kids. At that time, everything was 50 Cent, big jeans, wifebeaters and boots, big hoodies. There were kids who didnt even feel like that, but they had to dress like that, you know what I mean? I knew kids who were super-nerds in school who wore a do-rag and looked like goddamn 50 Cent because thats all you could do. They wouldnt have done that if they knew they had a choice.Ingersoll points to Lupe Fiasco as an artist who opened the door The Cool Kids walked through. "That was actually the first step in that direction, he says. You got somebody from the West Side of Chicago talking about skateboarding. We werent like Lupe, but we came from that same caste. We went from 50 Cent to a rapper with glasses, talking bout . When people get over shit, they want the opposite. We grew up looking at how our fathers dressed in the 80s and talked about stuff that actually mattered to us. We dont wear just, like, big baggy jeans all the time. We know about anime, we know about books, weve eaten different food. This exists. Still, if people generally want the opposite of whatever came before, what does that mean for right now? Now, its not about establishing who you are as a person, Ingersoll says. Its about how much you can prove to people that you are who they think you are. Or, as the writer Sheila Heti put it in her novel fter we finish our burgers and head to their managers Bucktown office, Ingersoll and Reed hover over Reeds phone, deciding to test out the newly debuted Instagram Live feature. We live! We live! they shout sarcastically to their followers checking in, in between pummeling each other with rounds of styrofoam bullets from a monstrous stray Nerf gun with a refillable clip. The two take turns responding to incoming comments: Where the bitches at? Reed answers incredulously, Its 3 p.m., man, relax! The most Chicago thing about The Cool Kids, by the way, is that theyre funny as fuck. The Dozens in Chicago is a whole nother sport, Ingersoll explains. You gotta be funny growing up; you had to learn how to have thick skin and how to be quick, or you gonna get left. You make fun out of everything  not make fun It comes from that wintertime, adds Reed. You dont got nothing to do but sit in the house and talk shit about your friends all day. When it was cold as fuck, youd be in somebodys basement playing video games and just honing your skills in shit-talking cause you couldnt go play soccer and shit.. I got a lot of shit done, but it just didnt feel right, man. Everybodys in a constant cycle of moving in and out, so you cant establish anything stable. Everybody hates their hometown, hates being where theyre from, and feels like theyre supposed to go. But sometimes, nah. Something about the Midwest  our people and our grandparents and great-grandparents, they came to Chicago, Detroit, St. Louis to get out of the South, adds Ingersoll, thinking out loud. They separated themselves from what they were comfortable with, and now were naturally separatists. We dont have the same camaraderie. But we do! Because be out of town with somebody from Chicago, be out of the country with someone from Detroit, and theres a brotherhood. Theres this collective consciousness. We have that fraternity. If there was a way to combat that, and let people have that same attitude in the place where theyre at, this wouldnt be a place that you needed to leave.ater that night, the mid-December temperature drops to zero degrees, but it doesnt matter. Thalia Hall, where The Cool Kids will be performing together in their hometown for the first time in half a decade, is filled to its nearly-900-person capacity. The crowd might skew a little older, but the vibe is unmistakable  the same diverse array of faces and styles you might have seen at a 2007 Town Hall night. I think of something Ingersoll said earlier, when I asked whats changed the most for the duo over a decade of highs, lows, and complete restarts. Then, we just had big dreams, he said. I dont think we really weighed out how we wanted it to look for the full spectrum. When you have big dreams and they play out bigger than you thought, sometimes you can kinda be overwhelmed. Now, Im not shaken by shit. When we first came out, people would dis us for how we looked, and that shit would bother me. Now, you cant say shit to me, and if you did, Id probably whoop your ass. He nods to Reed: You can ask him, this shit has happened a couple times. But that attitude is maturity. Its really about the music, and us having fun. Before, it turned into: Are we being The Cool Kids, this grandiose idea everybody created for us? I dont give a shit! The first really important piece of advice we got when we started working on this album was: Fuck The Cool Kids. Were already The Cool Kids.. The crowd screams every word: YO, I GOT THIS 89, 90 / PISTONS CHAMP FLAT-BILL / BLACK STARTER CAP WITH THE HOLOGRAM TAGS. And its not just the duos biggest hits that feel burned into the crowds memory. They know all the solo shit  Reeds Cell Dope and Memo get an especially huge response  and they know the new shit, too, from the modernist but ever-so-slightly Slick Rickish Connect 4 to the gently eerie echo of Running Man, in which Reed raps with a disaffected smirk: You still on Ian Connors page tryna pick what to wear / These peasants fresh as me? Tell me how / They still distressin tees on they couch / Rock band tees and bands they dont know nothin bout / You heard of Iron Maiden once? Bro that dont even count. The duo perch on the stages giant subwoofers, trading bars like they never left. has for black men. Written and directed by Peele, it mines a potentially horrifying event: Chris (Daniel Kaluuya), who is black, accompanies his white girlfriend Rose (Allison Williams) to her parents' home for the weekend  a benign enough event on its own, until the film spins it into a chilling , its trivial to have a black character as the fourth wallbreaking narrator of a horror film. America in itself is a horror film for black men, and there are no rules you can follow or learn from watching '80s slasher films on VHS that will make sure you see the next morning. And so Chris finds himself not the sidekick, but the doomed protagonist under attack in an all-white suburb from his girlfriend's family, their neighbors, and even the black domestic staff. But beyond Chris and the horrors he suffers, the film depicts the emotional and physical toll that racism has on the American black body.. In the book, the nameless protagonist is blindfolded along with several other young black men who are forced to fight each other in a boxing match. After the conclusion of the match, the black men retrieve their payment  fake coins littered across a carpet that electrocutes them when they touch it. The scene is horrifying, but it is a stark reminder that black men in America existed for the pleasure of white men. Whether it was to fetch cotton on a plantation or to fight one another to the death, every muscle in a black mans body was a tool to be used for his own destruction. In  is cleverly chosen as the catalyst for this particular ritual  and what's better than sports to supply an analogy to how black bodies provide pleasure to white spectators, with basketball players who are traded to the highest-bidding team and even America's greatest athlete, Serena Williams, being constantly  (via the voice of Jada Pinkett Smith's Maureen Evans) as "some dumbass white girls getting their white asses cut the fuck up." The horror genre is famous for its misogyny, and films often involve attractive white women (and their black best friends) getting hacked to pieces. As an audience, some women have found it . In the film, Mia Farrow plays a woman who has been raped and impregnated by Satan, with her own husband's collusion. It was this film in particular that came to mind during the scenes where Chris discovered his body wasn't being used for its sheer strength or attractiveness, but that so a blind man could have his brain transplanted into Chris's head. His literal body was to be invaded, making him a host for nefarious purposes no different than when Farrow's body was violated by the devil himself. That the outcome of , a John Landis horror-comedy, Landis sends up the idea of a boy being turned into a werewolf, but never once do you feel truly horrified for the protagonist. Landis kills him off in the end because it's still a fantasy for white men to be the victims of society's violence. There's no urgency in protecting the young man afflicted with lycanthropy because white teenage boys who watch it won't see it as an allegory for real-life horror that creeps into your life  here, it's just a movie. to take control of black bodies and give black men in the audience an allegory that they've craved in horror for decades. In the final moments of the film, once Chris has come out the other side of the carnage, a police car arrives. A director unfamiliar with living in a black body might have gone a darker route and given Chris a new adversary, a white police officer who misinterprets the events of the film. But Peele has lived in his body long enough to want a fantasy, a morality tale of sorts with a hopeful outcome. The police car is Chris's cavalry, because a black man is in it and not a white man. In the real world, our bodies might not be our own, but in  films should hardly be the blueprint for anything besides a way to consume two bottles of sauvignon blanc in a two-hour time span, but one thing the franchise understands is that intimacy is the greatest cure for men who live their lives in the shadows. Think about it: Christian Grey has everything he needs to be Batman. He's got the dead parents, the slew of gadgets, the billionaire playboy persona  not to mention the fact that he can survive a fucking helicopter crash without a scratch on him. Affleck's channeling of  on a constant loop in his bathrobe while chowing down on microwaved lobster. His relationship with the psychopathic Joker is less of a bloody, violent affair and more of a deeply confused love story. Batman insists that he doesn't care enough about the Joker to declare him his archnemesis, but the Joker wants otherwise. His greatest desire in life is for Batman to admit that he hates Joker more than anyone else he's fought. There is, as we know, a very thin line between love and hate. For Batman to admit that he loathes the Joker is tantamount to admitting that he loves him, that he cherishes the moments when they confront each other in battle. hinges on Batman's relationships more than its action-driven predecessors. Batman struggles with his own tragedy of becoming an orphan (Batman's parents were gunned down in front of him, which led to his origin as a masked vigilante), he struggles to accept help from his friends, and he struggles to admit his feelings for Barbara Gordon, the new commissioner of Gotham. Previous romances in Batman films have been superfluous, save for Michael Keaton's Batman and Michelle Pfeiffer's Catwoman in 1992's , while superhero comics have grown up over the years and ventured into more mature subject matter, positive sexual experiences are still a rarity. In a historic moment for the series, the sexually and emotionally repressed Batman confesses, I love you, to Catwoman. It's fitting that the release of this issue coincided with . Jamie Dornan portrays Christian Grey as the archetypal Bruce Wayne we've come to know over the years. He's wounded figuratively and literally by the death of his mother and the lingering scars of cigarette burns from his abusive stepfather. It might seem odd to find any common thread with the kinky sexscapades of  film. On the track The Arms of Orion, in which Prince speaks as if he were the Caped Crusader himself, he croons, Since you've been gone / I've been searching for a lover. It's taken some time, but maybe now Batman knows that his greatest weapon isn't in his utility belt. It's his heart.This is a blow to those who were hoping to watch Beyonc under the desert stars, but it's not like she doesn't have the most legitimate excuse to bail in the history of time, as the incubation of the Carter twins is an historic event in and of itself. That said, there's a void to be filled for the top spot at one of the biggest festivals in the game, and there are plenty of performers who are more than ready to rise to the occasion. Here are a few educated guesses as to who could  and should  step up to the headliner plate for Coachella 2017.Chance had to cancel his second-weekend performance at Coachella 2014 due to illness. Kicking off his summer of major headlining gigs with a chance (whoops) to leave his mark on the Coachella main stage would be such a perfect bookend, and another feather in that 3 cap of his. (Plus, we already know  Well, I think that America is in trouble. This administration is absolutely chaotic. They cannot get it together. Not only did they have the plan to ban travel, and targeting Muslims in certain countries  theyre at each others throats in the White House. Americans should be concerned.  I think the intelligence committee of the Senate is going to dig deeper. Theyre the ones who are saying, Protect all of the records, dont get rid of anything dealing with Russia, etc., etc. But heres what makes me optimistic about the possibility. I think that Trump has stepped over the line, colluding with Putin and the Kremlin, and I think that for the very patriotic members of Congress  even the ones that I dont get along with  they dont like the fact that he may have been involved in undermining our democracy. That is serious. So if the investigations are done properly, and if they dig deeply, I think that theyre going to understand why Putin loves Trump so much, and why Trump loves Putin so much, and why this president has so many of his associates around him who are involved in oil and gas. McCain went so far as to say that the way that Trump has been treating the media, and saying that the media is the enemy of the people, thats how you get to dictatorships.  Well, first of all, Im excited about the new involvement and the interest of our millennials. And youre absolutely right, theyve started to talk about running for office, and its so very possible. I think in order to run for office, just kind of understand what campaigns are all about, and how to choose people who can organize the kind of campaign that will make you successful. Understand what it means to raise money, and know who you want to get money from, and who you dont want to get money from. Be prepared to spend a lot of energy out walking, knocking on doors, talking to people. And lets not  and I dont think they will  get involved in the way campaigns have evolved today, and that is just looking for a consultant to make an image for you, and go up on television. I dont think they want that. They showed us with Bernie Sanders that they like grassroots politics. And when they came up from the march, all over the country, and all over the world, theyre showing their continued interest. And I am excited about it. Im excited about the fact that somehow theyve connected with me, and theyre following me, and theyre tweeting, and retweeting. And they are calling me Auntie Maxine. Theyre calling me Queen of Shade, now, and Im saying to my grandchildren, Whats shade?  Well, let me just say I go back really far. I was a part of the womens movement, and Im a feminist. So Ive been involved with reproductive rights and freedom of choice for a long time, working with Gloria Steinem and Bella Abzug, Patsy Mink, all of the women who were in the forefront of the womens movement. And we have to fight very hard because this issue is one that has been on the right-wing Republican agenda for many years, and theyve tried everything that they possibly can to get rid of systems that support women. They want to get rid of Planned Parenthood, and Planned Parenthood does not even [just] do abortions. As a matter of fact, they are involved with dealing with womens health issues of all kinds.  Well, you know, it was absolutely inappropriate. You know what it reminded me of? All you people know each other! Just go over there and get them together for me. [He] did not respect the fact that she was a professional journalist, did not respect the fact that we dont all know each other. That was inappropriate for him to even ask her to do that. As a matter of fact, if he wanted someone to talk with the Black Caucus, to get them together, his office should be organized. Thats somebodys responsibility to do that, but he doesnt know enough.  No. Im not going to meet with Donald Trump, Im not going to the State of the Union address. I did not go to the inauguration, and for our leader Cedric Richmond, who will meet with him and some of the others, thats OK. Thats fine. I have chosen to manage my life in a certain way, and I do everything that I can to respect people, to honor other folks. [Trump] has shown us that he respects nobody. So why would I meet with someone I dont trust? I dont respect him. I dont believe anything that he says. Hes one of the biggest liars that Ive ever seen in my life, and I see no reason to sit down with him. Every time he talks about wanting to do something for the black community, he throws Chicago in your face, and talks about how Rahm Emanuel is not doing anything in Chicago. How hes gonna go in there, and hes gonna clean it all up. Yeah, just like hes gonna build a wall. Right.  Well, I think everybody can agree that we have had serious problems. Whether youre talking about what happened with many of the young black males who, unarmed, were killed, we have problems that we have to deal with. What bothers me about Jeff Sessions is that he does not believe that the federal government should interfere with or bother with local police jurisdictions. Thats bothersome. As you know, because the Obama administration went into Ferguson, they were able to determine that people had been treated unfairly with the way that they gave out warrants and tickets, and all of those little towns leading out of St. Louis, Missouri. I know those towns  Im from Kenlock, one of those towns. And I know that they would call ahead, and theyd ticket them in one town, and the police would be waiting for them in the next town to ticket them. The warrants would pile up, then theyd go to jail. This has been going on for a long time. Then you have police departments where you actually have racism, and you have discrimination. Jeff Sessions does not want to get involved with that, thinks that the federal government has no role with that, and that really does bother me. But weve all got to work to deal with this issue. I am absolutely opposed to these young men and women who are being killed, who are unarmed, being stopped by police for no real reason at all. To have a broken taillight is not a reason to get shot and killed. I think we have a lot of work to do. And of course, I dont want to see police officers get killed either. But I think unless we resolve the relationships and problems that have probably been around for far too long, were going to continue to see the loss of life on both sides. Well, first of all, I think that he cannot be taken seriously. He had some kind of a meeting that was supposed to be about black history a few weeks ago, and it seems that he thought Frederick Douglass was still alive, and said he was doing a good job. He didnt even take the time to read his notes. I dont take him seriously when he talks about wanting to do things for the black community. As I see it, actions speak louder than words. Stop saying what youre gonna do, and do it. He came out with executive orders when he first went into the White House. Where are his executive orders doing something for the minority communities that should be done? I dont believe him, and I think he just throws out things, and tweets things without having any real thought behind it.  told us who he was. She captured him perfectly. Nobody pays attention to him, hes not taken seriously. And I even know that the president was not too happy with him, so I dont know how long hell be around. I dont respond to them. I continue to do what I do. They dont like it because I step outside of the ordinary politics and I say what I believe, and what I think, and I do believe that if we do our investigations, its going to lead to this mans impeachment. I dont say that you can just willy-nilly impeach him without having the facts. I know that you have to have the documentation, you have to have the facts, but its there. To me, all you have to do is connect these dots and follow the money, and well get him.  I dont know, because I ignore that. [T]hink about how well-behaved Obama and Michelle Obama were, and they attacked her. They called her an angry black woman simply because she said for the first time [that] she really felt good about her country. Here you have Donald Trump, who trashes this country and talks about how its falling apart, its no good, everything is broken to him. So I dont pay attention to them. I know who I am, Im free to be me, and I dont let anybody take that away from me. Im not intimidated by him, and Im not going to stop being me because [of] criticism by some right-wing conservatives who dont care about anybody, and theyre willing to bring this country down so that they can do what they think they can do. And that is be in charge and run it, and keep their feet on everybody elses necks. So I dont worry about it.  Well, I think people are very cautious, and I do know I tend to step outside of the box. Youre right, Ive been doing this for years in different ways. I simply do what I think is right, and Im anchored in a basic philosophy that cares about people, and believes that we have a responsibility to the least of these. I act on that, and thats who I am and thats what Im going to continue to do.  Heres what I think. The Democrats have a responsibility, in all of this protesting, to educate and point out the contradictions, to help people understand who he is and what hes all about, and show them how hes misled them. Already we have signs of that. The farmers in California said, We never thought that he was going to do those deportations. What are we gonna do about these crops that we have to turn out? And then up in the coal mining country, people are just now realizing that its because of Obamacare that black lung disease is being taken care of. These preexisting conditions. So I think little by little, some people are going to come to the realization that this is not the person that they want for the president of the United States. Others are going to increasingly get embarrassed by him. The president of the United States usually, Democrat or Republican, is held in high regard all over the world, and for this president to be disinvited even before his 100 days are up should tell you an awful lot. I have confidence that [the young people] are going to, for the most part, see and understand. I think theyre going to pay attention to politics in a greater way, greater than theyve ever done before. And I am convinced that in the final analysis, his hardcore supporters are going to be small in numbers. Its going to be like the election. You know, if the popular vote had decided who the winner would be, it would be Hillary Clinton. Dont forget that she had the popular vote. So Im very optimistic about young people, about organizing, and about helping this president to be impeached. 