new-scientist
The researchers then took three groups of other bees and trained them in different ways. One group observed a previously trained bee solving the task; another was shown the ball moving into the hole, pulled by a hidden magnet; and a third group was given no demonstration, but was shown the ball already in the hole containing the reward.The bees then did the task themselves. Those that had watched other bees do it were most successful and took less time than those in the other groups to solve the task. Bees given the magnetic demonstration were also more successful than those not given one.When the bees were trained with three balls placed at different distances from the hole, with the two closest ones glued down, most of the successful bees that then did the task still moved the ball that was closest to the hole. This showed that they were able to make generalisations to solve the task more easily, rather than copying exactly what they had seen.They dont just blindly copy the demonstrator; they can improve on what they learned, says Loukola. He thinks this cognitive flexibility could help the bees forage successfully in changing natural environments. This ability to copy others and improve upon what they observe, I think thats really important.If you apply the same level of scrutiny to vertebrate experiments as to those done with insects, you quickly find that although something might at first appear complex, the same simple mechanisms we find in insects also are at play in vertebrates, he says.Bees cognitive abilities are of interest to artificial intelligence researchers, some of whom build computer models of insects brains to help learn how nature creates complex behaviour. Behavioural studies of insects are increasingly showing that you can do a lot with very limited hardware.We just have not been very good at designing experiments that allow us to probe insect cognition very well, he says. Thats probably because it is so incredibly difficult to imagine how bees experience the world, and if you want to give them tasks they can succeed at, that is key. I think the authors here really succeed at taking the bees view of the world.This is thanks to the Neanderthal DNA those of non-African descent inherited from ancestors who mated with our cousins some 50,000 years ago. A study has now revealed how this genetic legacy is still controlling how some peoples genes work, with possible consequences for their health.Tellingly, the Neanderthal influence has waned fastest in parts of the body that evolved most rapidly around that time, especially the brain. It suggests that once our direct human ancestors had evolved the equipment for sophisticated language and problem-solving, The team found that some people had one human and one Neanderthal copy of the same gene. When comparing these genes, Akey and his colleagues found that a quarter showed differences in activity between the modern and Neanderthal versions of the same gene. More importantly, the researchers could tell which variant had the upper hand.Most genes can generate a variety of different proteins that do different jobs in different tissues of the body, depending on how sub-units of the protein are assembled. Akeys study shows that the key contemporary impact of the Neanderthal remnants is in dictating which variant of a protein gets produced today.The differences in the testes, meanwhile, throw new light on how a species may eventually split by becoming sexually incompatible. One of the testes genes over which Neanderthal DNA lost control affects the formation of a sperms tail and, subsequently, its ability to penetrate and fertilise an egg.People derive a sense of belonging and identity from brands, he says. For example, you may see yourself as a Mac person or a PC person and feel connected to other people who choose that brand. Marketers are extremely savvy about cultivating these brand identities.After tobacco advertising was banned in Australia in 1992, the only way to foster brand stereotypes was by using fonts and imagery on cigarette packs that appeal to specific groups. But Webbs research suggests that since plain packaging was introduced, brand identity and positive brand stereotypes have significantly declined.Webb and his colleagues surveyed 178 smokers immediately before and seven months after the policy change and found that they were significantly less likely to adhere to any particular brand after the change. They were also less likely to rate typical smokers of that brand as having positive traits like trendiness or sophistication.We typically think that the primary drivers for why people smoke are individual personality traits or biological factors, Webb says. But this understates the symbolic power of brand identities and brand stereotypes in maintaining smoking behaviour.So he had to search the archive for where the moon cropped up, under those conditions, in Voyager 1 pictures of other Saturnian subjects. There was one set where there was a series of eight images that contained Enceladus, just a few pixels across, at a not optimal but useful phase-angle for this kind of work, he says.By stacking together and averaging those images, taken in November of 1980, Stryk was able to boost the signal-to-noise ratio of the final picture and so reveal the feature he argues are the plumes found by Cassini decades later. Stryks work will be published in the proceedings of the Its remarkable to be able to go back to data taken almost a quarter of a century before Cassini arrived and, armed with the discovery information from Cassini, produce this remarkable processed Voyager image which seems to reveal the plume at that time, says Looking for work? It might be time to rip up your CV. A platform based on behavioural science attempts to strip bias out of hiring so candidates are judged only on their abilities, avoiding any possible influence from aspects such as gender and ethnicity., has been developed by the Behavioural Insights Team, a company originally set up by the UK government to apply behavioural psychology to government services and policy. It is already being used by the UK Civil Service, Cancer Research UK and publishing company Penguin, and is available to any company worldwide from today.To help avoid this behavioural bias, the Applied system forgoes CVs, instead asking candidates to each complete the same five questions that relate specifically to the job theyre applying for in an online portal. All answers to each question in turn are then evaluated by up to three recruiters from the employer, without them knowing which answer came from which candidate. Each recruiter is also given the answers in a different order to minimise whats known as the halo effect, whereby one exceptionally good or bad answer influences how the next is perceived.In a trial that compared the system to traditional CV-based hiring, the company found that the perceived strength of a candidates CV did not necessarily correspond to how well they performed in interviews and assessment centres. The system was used with 700 candidates who applied for roles in the Behavioural Insights Team, while another group of recruiters reviewed the applicants CVs as normal.Applications that made it through the Applied filtering came from a wider set of universities and had a broader range of skills between them than those who had their CVs rated highly. After also completing interviews and assessment days, 13 applicants were offered jobs. Over 50 per cent of the candidates that we hired, we wouldnt have hired if we hadnt used the platform, says Glazebrook says that much of the conventional hiring process seems to come down to chance. In the trial, recruiters who had just read a great CV were more likely to rate the next one they read more harshly, and the ratings for the first few CVs reviewed were inconsistent as the recruiter tried to work out what a good application looked like. Being in the first 10 to 15 [CVs reviewed] is kind of a risky business for a candidate, she says. in France in 2010 found that when employers opted to have applicants CVs stripped of details such as name, gender and nationality, they were actually less likely to hire minority candidates than when this information was included. The researchers concluded that this may have been because the companies that volunteered to take part in the study were already more likely to hire minority candidates, and anonymising CVs could have made it harder to for them to take contextual factors into account.But Glazebrook says that Applied does not necessarily aim to increase diversity in teams. Its about hiring the best person irrespective of their background, she says. Weve been quite clear in the platform that we dont allow for positive discrimination at all among reviewers.A nearby star has seven temperate Earth-size planets within a stones throw of each other  each offering its own chance for atmospheres, oceans and life to emerge. The exoplanet discovery suggests such Russian-doll systems of nested small worlds may be common, and perhaps the best places in our galaxy to look for life.Each planet had been discovered when it transited in front of its star, blocking some light and causing the TRAPPIST-1 system to wink in brightness. As the team kept watching shadow after shadow cross the star, three planets no longer seemed like enough to explain the pattern. At some point we could not make sense of all these transits, Gillon says.The planets closest to the star, TRAPPIST-1b and c, are unchanged. But theres a new third planet, which has taken the d moniker, and what had looked like d before turned out to be glimpses of e, f and g. Theres a planet h, too, drifting farthest away and only spotted once. All of them are larger than Mars and less than 20 per cent bigger than Earth, and probably range from 40 per cent to 140 per cent of Earths mass. As a group, they seem to be less dense than Earth, perhaps similar to Jupiters icy moons.All are well within the distance at which Mercury circles the sun, and take between a day and a half and a few weeks to orbit the star. Because TRAPPIST-1 is so much smaller and dimmer than the sun, that distance may give the planets the right temperatures for water to survive on the surface.But the same models show the newly discovered lukewarm planets  e, f and g  would have dried out far less and could still host primordial oceans. Its also conceivable that pockets of liquid water could survive today on the three inner, hotter planets, or could have melted out of ice on the colder outer planet. of San Francisco State University, who wasnt part of the team. For one, TRAPPIST-1s retinue of planets is arranged like the large moons of Jupiter: their orbits are tightly spaced, and through the exchange of gravitational tugs they have settled into harmonies. For every eight times the innermost planet circles its star, for example, the second planet orbits five times, the third planet obits three times, and the fourth planet orbits twice.That kind of compact gravitational clockwork might facilitate the spread of life between worlds. I think that would dramatically increase the rate at which material is exchanged between the planets, Kane says. You would only be required to have biological material on one planet, which would then be shared to the others.Another project, now underway, has already taken the preliminary steps to search for life in the system. Using the Hubble Space Telescope, the team has looked for puffy atmospheres around planets b, c, d, e, f and g  and Hubbles successor, the James Webb Space Telescope, should be able to follow up with a deeper study of the atmospheric chemistry of any of these planets that look promising.For now, though, many of the most exciting prospects of multiple watery, rocky planets orbiting right on top of each other are still highly speculative. In addition to impacts on one planet scattering material to the others, interplanetary travel is pretty easy, too, jokes team member Firstly, burning wood produces more carbon dioxide, methane and nitrogen dioxide per unit of energy produced than coal. When forests are logged, their soils also release carbon over the next decade or two. There are also emissions from the transport and processing of wood, which can be considerable.By contrast, forests that are left to grow continue soak up carbon. This is true even for mature forests, the report says. Older trees absorb much more carbon than younger trees, so despite the death of some trees, mature forests are still a carbon sink overall.As for the idea that all the CO2 emitted when wood is burned is eventually soaked up when trees regrow, this can take up to 450 yearsif forests do indeed regrow, the report says. To avoid dangerous climate change, however, emissions need to be reduced right away.But in reality, there simply is not enough waste wood to meet demand. What waste there is often contains too much dirt, bark and ash to burn in power plants, or is already used for other purposes. Instead, there is substantial felling of whole trees for energy, the report says.Many countries are increasing use of biomass as renewable energy, Mary Booth of the US-based Partnership for Policy Integrity and a reviewer on the report, said in a statement. Alarmingly, the Chatham House report concludes that uncounted emissions from the biomass loophole are likely large, and likely to significantly undermine efforts to address climate change.In the latest review, people who ate 10 portions of fruit and veg a day had nearly a third lower risk of death than those who ate none during the course of the studies  which followed people for between three and thirty years. Most of the benefits stemmed from reductions in the rates of heart disease and cancer, the commonest causes of death in western countries.