the-washington-post
Former labor secretary Thomas Perez was elected the first Latino chair of the Democratic National Committee on Saturday, narrowly defeating Rep. Keith Ellison (D-Minn.) at the end of a contentious battle over the fate of the beleaguered party in the age of President Trump.Perezs victory concluded the first contested race for the DNC leadership since 1985, a contest the party had extended by a month to allow more debate. It put in place the Democratic leadership that will navigate thousands of state and local elections  where the party hopes to reverse the losses of the past six years  and a 2020 presidential race that could divide the party again.Ellisons defeat was a blow to the partys liberal wing, personified by activists, labor leaders and organizers, many of whom had supported the presidential bid of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and had come to Atlanta to cheer Ellison on. Many of them warned that by picking Perez, the party was alienating the growing resistance that has organized against Trump.The race was close enough that it required a second round of balloting, with Perez winning 235 of 435 votes cast. With tensions still high as the result was announced, nine Ellison supporters chanted Party for the people, not big money! and stormed out of the room.Someday, theyre going to study this era of American history, Perez said after his win. Theyre going to ask the question of all of us: Where were you in 2017 when we had the worst president in the history of the United States? We will be able to say that the Democratic Party led the resistance and made sure this was a one-term president.Sanders, who had supported Ellison, said in a statement that it was imperative that Tom understands that the same-old, same-old is not working and that we must open the doors of the party to working people and young people in a way that has never been done before.The vote itself was tense. On Friday night, Democrats gathered at a downtown Westin hotel here in Atlanta to meet, drink and lobby for votes, and the Ellison campaign  along with allies of South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg, a third candidate  battled rumors that Perez might already have locked up the votes he needed.But by Saturday morning, it was clear that the race was up for grabs. Buttigieg used his nomination speech to quit the race, endorsing no candidate. As most of the 439 DNC members present cast their votes  eight eligible members did not attend  several DNC members got a text from the Ellison camp saying the congressman was grateful to have the support of Mayor Buttigieg, an endorsement that the mayor denied.In the first round of balloting, Perez won 213.5 votes to 200 for Ellison, 12 for Idaho Democratic Party Executive Director Sally Boynton Brown, 0.5 for Democratic strategist Jehmu Greene and one for Buttigieg in the first round of balloting. Greene endorsed Perez, while two fringe candidates who had won no votes backed Ellison. Members who are abroad get half a vote.Perezs victory did not represent a Democratic shift to the right. On key issues, Perezs platform mostly resembled Ellisons. Perez promised to refocus on small donors and online fundraising; Ellison set a goal for low-dollar contributions from everyday Americans [to] account for 33percent of revenue. Ellison called for an Innovation Hub in Silicon Valley; Perez promoted DNC fellowships to encourage developers, programmers, data scientists, [and] engineers.While Perez and Ellison praised each other personally, the race was defined for outsiders by Sanderss support of the Minnesota lawmaker. Ellison was one of the few members of Congress who had backed Sanders for president. He billed himself as the unity candidate who would keep Sanderss restive supporters in the party while embracing those who had backed Clinton.In the first weeks after Ellison declared his candidacy, the strategy seemed to be working, despite some hiccups. Labor unions that had endorsed Clinton, such as the American Federation of Teachers and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, got behind Ellison.Howard Dean, the most successful DNC chair in modern party history, dropped his plans to run again when Ellison said he would resign from Congress if elected to the full-time job. Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), who had frequently clashed with Dean over strategy and investments, endorsed Ellison and defended the first Muslim member of Congress against charges of anti-Semitism.But veterans of the Obama administration, where Perez had been a popular liberal force, encouraged the former labor secretary to run  and starting Dec.15, he did. In progressive media, the race was frequently covered as a clash between the establishment and the revolution that had been proved right by the 2016 election. That was not how most DNC members chose to see it. In public forums, including the final one broadcast on CNN, Ellison and Perez declined to criticize each other. While progressive media outlets accused Perez of protecting the partys consultant class, DNC members who broke for Perez said that he had convinced them that he knew what state parties needed.Perez was also helped by a string of endorsements from Obama administration veterans  although, as Ellison backers noticed, he did not win any high-profile supporters of Sanderss to compete with Ellisons endorsements from Clintonites. The Feb.1 endorsement of Perez by former vice president Joe Biden, one of the partys most beloved figures, prompted Sanders to criticize Perez for the first time.Do we stay with a failed status-quo approach or do we go forward with a fundamental restructuring of the Democratic Party? Sanders asked in a statement after Bidens endorsement. I say we go forward and create a grassroots party which speaks for working people and is prepared to stand up to the top one percent. Most of the DNCs membership  just 39 of whom had backed Sanders for president in 2016  did not view the contest as a stark ideological clash. Sanders supporters, including Ellison, had largely succeeded in moving the partys platform to the left. In interviews, some acknowledged that there would be walkouts by Sanders die-hards in their states, but they argued that the daily outrages around Trump might bring them back into the process.That confidence was on display Saturday before the vote for chairman. DNC members debated whether to strike language from Californias Christine Pelosi, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosis daughter, that would have restored a ban on corporate donations to the DNC. The prohibition was quietly rolled back during the controversial tenure of the previous elected DNC chair, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.)This resolution has nothing to do with nonprofit organizations, said Larry Cohen, a former president of the Communications Workers of America who backed Sanders in 2016. This is to send a message, loud and clear, that the DNC itself  not candidates, not state parties  will restore the ban that President Obama put into effect.We cannot escape our destiny, nor should we try to do so, Ronald Reagan told one of the first CPAC gatherings in January 1974. The leadership of the free world was thrust upon us two centuries ago in that little hall of Philadelphia. Quoting Pope Pius XII after World War II, Reagan said, Into the hands of America, God has placed the destinies of an afflicted mankind.Contrast that with what President Trump said Friday when he addressed the Conservative Political Action Conference. Trumps speech, coupled with the appearance a day earlier by White House chief strategist Stephen K. Bannon, provided the most definitive articulation of the America First philosophy that carried Trump to victory in November and that is redefining conservatism and, with it, the Republican Party.We need to define what this great, great unprecedented movement is and what it actually represents, Trump said. The core conviction of our movement is that we are a nation that put and will put its own citizens first. For too long, weve traded away our jobs to other countries. So terrible. Weve defended other nations borders while leaving ours wide open.Reagans speech in 1974, along with his frequent later appearances at CPAC, was an evocation of his vision of America as a shining city on a hill and the last best hope of man on Earth. His vision called for an outward-looking America, a nation whose unique power and position carried with it obligations to the rest of the world. Those themes animated his conservatism throughout his political career.Trump, the economic nationalist, cast things differently. Among the most arresting lines in his speech were these: There is no such thing as a global anthem, a global currency or a global flag, he said. This is the United States of America that Im representing. Im not representing the globe. Im representing your country.Reagan might have agreed with the literal words spoken by the 45th president. He was an American president who traced his philosophy to the Founding Fathers and patriots. He was not a believer in global government or handing powers to international bodies such as the United Nations. Still, the contrast between Trumps and Reagans visions cannot be overstated.It is commonly asserted that Trump and Trumpism have buried Reagan and Reaganism, that the conservatism of the past few decades is rapidly being replaced by a mixture of policies that range across the ideological spectrum, some of which are contrary to what conservatives have long espoused.That assertion of the takeover is mostly true. The speed with which the transformation of the Republican Party is taking place is breathtaking, at least on the surface. Many conservative intellectuals remain holdouts. But rank-and-file Republicans so far are enthusiastic, and Trumps hardcore supporters are ecstatic.Trump is still a work in progress. His speech at CPAC sounded much like the campaign speeches he gave last fall, replete with promises yet to be fulfilled. His supporters give him credit for keeping those promises, as the first weeks of his administration have been a projection of his intention to do just that. The details of his promises remain sketchy. Trumps Tuesday night speech to a joint session of Congress could begin to fill in some of those blank spots.Some of his agenda is conventional conservatism as it has been defined since and even before Reagan. Domestically, Trump is for lower taxes and less regulation to spur business activity and economic growth. Bannon used a phrase that perhaps sounded ominous to describe the struggle to enact this agenda. He called it the deconstruction of the administrative state.In less grandiose language, it represents an effort to pare back the federal government. Republicans have long advocated exactly that. Reagan tried and was partially successful in taming the federal behemoth  but not the deficit. Trumps advocacy of these policies is one big reason so many traditional conservatives, and particularly Republican elected officials, are making their peace with a president whose candidacy they opposed and whose language and style repelled them throughout the 2016 election.Trump and Reagan shared something else: Each sought to redefine the Republican Party as one that was open and welcoming to working-class Americans, many of them longtime Democratic voters. Reagan battled the Republican establishment on his way to the presidency, and he sought to create a new coalition of voters for the party.The New Republican Party that I envision will not be and cannot be one limited to the country club, big-business image that, for reasons both fair and unfair, it is burdened with today, Reagan told CPAC in 1977. The New Republican Party I am speaking about is going to have room for the man and the woman in the factories, for the farmer, for the cop on the beat.Like Reagan, who brought many white ethnic, working-class voters to his side during the 1980s, Trump owes his victory in part to his success in attracting more support than previous GOP candidates from that same constituency. On Friday, Trump said: The GOP will be, from now on, the party of the American worker. ... We will not answer to donors or lobbyists or special interests. (That, even though his Cabinet is populated by billionaires and Wall Street veterans.)Trump and Bannon see a world of entangling alliances and multinational trade agreements that they seem to believe have ill served the United States and the American worker. They cast themselves as part of a right-wing populist movement challenging governments throughout Europe over immigration, refugees and other policies. For Trump, the Islamic State and radical Islamists represent the greatest threat to security and stability.Trump and Bannon would argue that the world is far different than it was when Reagan came to power. The Soviet Union, with which Reagan battled, no longer exists. Trump sees Russia as a potential ally against the Islamic State. But Russias interference in the election casts a shadow over Trumps presidency, and Trumps gentleness toward an aggressive Russian President Vladimir Putin is anathema to Reaganites.During our political efforts, we were the subject of much indifference and often times intolerance, and thats why I hope our political victory will be remembered as a generous one and our time in power will be recalled for the tolerance we showed for those with whom we disagree. ... We must hold out this exciting prospect of an orderly, compassionate, pluralistic society, an archipelago of prospering communities and divergent institutions.Pro-ACA protesters attended more than 100 rallies held Saturday across the country, organized by an activist group affiliated with Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.). That followed a congressional recess week during which GOP lawmakers were confronted by defenders of the health-care law in town hall meetings across the country. Numerous Democratic officeholders also held events touting the laws successes.The surge in activism comes as congressional Republicans prepare to take their next steps toward repealing the ACA, also known as Obamacare, and replacing it with what they say will be a more free-market-oriented system that is expected to cost the government less but cover fewer Americans.The new mobilization represents a stark reversal of the recent political dynamics around health care. Until now, conservative activists have occupied the spotlight and relentlessly pushed Republicans to undo Obamacare, while Democrats and liberal groups largely stayed on the sidelines.There is a serious grass-roots element to this that previously the establishment Democrats didnt really tap into, said Julienne Gede Edwards, a 28-year-old Maryland attorney and colon cancer survivor, who attended a rally in Washington on Saturday and carried a sign calling on Republican lawmakers to lay out a health-care plan: Youve Had 7 Years  Lets Hear It!I think theres sort of a comfortability in the fact that your party occupies the White House, or even the Senate and House, he said. And when the tea party movement pushed Republicans to repeal the law, We sort of shunned it as a fringe movement, he added.As the protesters gathered outside the White House, Trump was inside having lunch with Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker (R) and Florida Gov. Rick Scott (R), where they discussed how best to solve the problems of Obamacare, according to a Trump administration statement.House legislation that will undo key Affordable Care Act provisions is expected to be introduced as soon as Monday, according to congressional aides. That legislation would ultimately undo the system of income-based tax subsidies and penalties at the center of the ACA as well as phase out the expansion of Medicaid, the federally funded health-care program for the poor that now covers 74million Americans.Sanders, who spent Saturday evening talking to Democrats in Kansas, said that the conservative state was getting a hard lesson in supply-side economics. Gov. Sam Brownback (R), who had signed a series of tax cuts, was among the Republican governors now asking that any reform of the ACA save the Medicaid expansion  something Republicans had sued to get rid of.Thereve been massive cutbacks in programs for working families, Sanders said. This is what Donald Trump is threatening to do for the whole country  he told working families he wouldnt cut their Social Security or their health care, and we are going to expose him for that hypocrisy.Numerous GOP aides and lawmakers say that the goal of their system is to ensure universal access to insurance, not universal coverage. But Democrats say that the Republican plan could potentially cause millions to lose their coverage, and they have sought to highlight cases of sick Americans who might not have been able to access health care if not for the ACA. A consultants report shared at a National Governors Association conference this weekend, obtained Saturday by Vox, shows that recently floated GOP replacement proposals would indeed lead to a major decline in the number of insured Americans.Some Republicans have characterized the protests and the town hall confrontations as the work of paid protesters and fringe groups, and they say they remain confident that voters want the ACA repealed and replaced. Others have promised to preserve the more popular elements of the law.The activist left is giving Democratic leaders fits as they search for answers after their failures in 2016, said Jesse Hunt, a spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee. A constellation of progressive groups are more than happy to play a hand in the process to try and promote the same far-left agenda that has been rejected by the American people in two consecutive elections.Over the weekend, the Democratic leaders of all 57 state and territorial parties converged in Atlanta to elect new officers. A billboard truck, paid for by the conservative American Action Network, circled the hotel and convention center where they were meeting, showing an image of House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and accusing the ACA of bringing about higher costs, fewer choices, and canceled plans.Jane Kleeb, the chair of Nebraskas Democratic Party, said that defending the ACA had been a non-starter in her conservative state. In 2012, Republicans helped scare Democratic Sen. Ben Nelson into retirement over his vote for the law. Two years later, they elected Sen. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.), who promised to repeal it.Those doubts, she said, disappeared when Trump won and Republicans promised to gut the ACA. All the farmers I work with are self-insured, she said. They need their insurance costs to stay down, and they need rural hospitals to stay open. That only happens if Obamacare stays in place.The recent uptick in engagement appears to be because of people like Nissen Ritter, a 57-year-old resident of Chevy Chase, Md., who does not personally benefit from major ACA programs but has family members who do  and who had not attended a political rally for years before Trumps election.Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) became one of the few Republican representatives to state publicly the needfor an independent investigation into Russia's reported election meddling. This comes as Democrats have increasingly pushed for an investigation intoIn an appearance on HBO's Real Time with Bill Maher, Issa,a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, first told the progressive show host that House and Senate intelligence committees would look into Russia's activities within the special areas they oversee. concluded that hackers with connections to the Russian government targeted the Democratic National Committee and leaked thousands of emails to WikiLeaks in an effort to sway the outcome in Trump's favor.United States intelligence agencies have said they agree with the assessment, and a Maher protested, saying there needed to be aspecial prosecutor  and that now-Attorney General Jeff Sessions should recuse himself the same way former Attorney General Loretta Lynch recused herself from an investigation into Hillary Clinton's emails.If merely being a supporter of the Presidents during the campaign warranted recusal from involvement in any matter involving [Trump], then most typical presidential appointees would be unable to conduct their duties, Sessions told Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.) in written responses to the Senate Judiciary Committee, Here's the reason we're going to have to do it, Bill. There may or may not be fault, but the American people who are beginning to understand that Putin murders his enemies  sometimes right in front of the Kremlin, and then suddenly the cameras don't work there  he's murdered people and taken down [sic] using cyberwarfare in Georgia and Ukraine. This is a bad guy who murders people, who runs a gas station with an economy the size of Italy but is screwing up things all over the world that we've been doing 'working with.' Now, we have to work with them. We don't have to trust them. And we need to investigate their activities and we need to do it because they are bad people.In response, tweets with the hashtag #WhereIsDarrell began appearing. Another video from the event showed Issa's face attached to a large cardboard cutout of Waldo,the purposely hard-to-spot cartoon character that was the star of a children's book series.When Maher brought up the lawmaker's absence from the town hall, Issa defended himself by saying that he had over 14 separate events open to the public in the last two weeks and that he had spoken to several hundred people who showed up outside his office to protest recently.Carson, who worked in marketing before she retired, pulls out her Neiman Marcus credit card and prepares to give it back. It was the obvious thing to do, she says, once the retailer stopped carrying Ivanka Trumps jewelry line on its website a few weeks ago.Some companies have announced in recent weeks that they would be culling Ivanka Trumps brand. Others have faced pressure from left-leaning groups to drop other Trump-family products. In response, conservative voters  who say they are tired of the negativity surrounding the new president  are staging their own boycotts against mainstream retailers. Its difficult to gauge how widespread these efforts are, or whether they will inspire real change, but stories about them are bubbling up.The movement gained steam this month when Nordstrom dropped Ivanka Trumps clothing and shoes from its stores after a period of declining sales. Soon after that, Kmart and Sears, also citing slow sales, announced they would be removing some Trump-branded products from their websites. There were reports that Marshalls and TJ Maxx had instructed employees to remove Ivanka Trump signs from store racks, although her clothing is still on sale there.The first five weeks of Trumps presidency have been marked by political polarization that has only deepened in the aftermath of a historic, contentious election. It has stirred a spirit of activism for Americans who say they are trying to make a difference where they can  and that increasingly means making deliberate choices about where they shop and what they buy.Boycotts are nothing new  theyve literally been around forever  but were seeing retail become more of a bully pulpit, said Mark Cohen, director of retail studies at Columbia Business School. How are consumers showing their disappointment? Some are demonstrating, others are spending a fair amount of time complaining. Many are voting with their wallets.Back at Neiman Marcus, Carson is telling the manager that she intends to do just that. It didnt bother her so much when Macys dropped President Trumps suits, shirts and ties two summers ago after he called Mexican immigrants killers and rapists. But something about this recent round of cancellations, she says, struck a chord.These bursts of negativity and displays of hatred, as she sees them, have been mounting since before the election. Then came Trumps victory and with it, swift backlash from the left. Take, for instance, the Womens March on Washington the day after the inauguration. Carson read up on it online.The way she sees it, retailers are only listening to one side when they shed Trump-branded products. The Grab Your Wallet campaign, which encourages widespread boycotts of companies that carry Trump brands, has dominated the news, she says. Her hope is her counteractions  credit card cancellations and store boycotts  will show retailers that conservative shoppers have spending power, too.And she isnt alone. A number of Trump voters  mostly longtime Republicans  said they had taken similar actions in recent weeks. Many had never been politically active before but said they felt a sense of urgency now. They werent represented in the mainstream media, they said, and increasingly felt their influence in other areas slipping, too. It felt important to band together.When Nordstrom announced they were getting rid of Ivankas brand, that was a deal-breaker for me, she said, adding that she owns about 25 pieces of clothing and at least eight pairs of shoes from Ivanka Trumps line. If management is going to be so narrow-minded, Im just not going to shop there anymore.There are small signs that the campaign is working. Ivanka Trumps perfume skyrocketed to the top of Amazon.coms best-selling fragrances as the presidents supporters looked to make their mark. (Jeffrey P. Bezos, the chief executive of Amazon, owns The Washington Post.)The fact is that the conservative woman also has a huge, huge influence on spending, said Tammy Witt OConnor of Oxford, Mich., who put her Nordstrom Rewards card through the shredder after she heard the company had dropped Ivanka Trumps line. For these retail brands to not realize that is shocking to me. I want retailers to be aware that there are consequences on both sides.In terms of large-scale influence, analysts say its unlikely boycotts will make or break mainstream retailers. Its too soon to tell, for example, whether Nordstroms earnings will be affected by the political firestorm. Nordstroms president on Thursday said its Mary Carson is not about convenience. Four years ago, after shed overcome cancer and endured four rounds of chemotherapy, Carson found she had lost all feeling in her hands and feet. For three years, doctors told her the sensation would come back. And then one day, a doctor told her to suck it up and accept that it wouldnt.I looked at him and I thought, thats rude, Carson recalled. But you know what? That turned out to be the best lesson I ever had. I sucked it up and accepted it. Im alive. If the nation would suck it up  this is our president now, just accept it  we would all be in a better place today.[The dinner] has been and will continue to be a celebration of the First Amendment and the important role played by an independent news media in a healthy republic, said Jeff Mason, WHCA president. We look forward to shining a spotlight at the dinner on some of the best political journalism of the past year and recognizing the promising students who represent the next generation of our profession.Questions about whether the dinner was appropriate existed before Trump took office. The event is an annual gathering of journalists and the people they cover, typically headlined by the sitting president. The White House Correspondents Associationawards $100,000 in scholarships at its annual dinner, according to its website, and recently started a mentoring program that pairs working journalists with journalism students.The annual dinner began in 1921, and Calvin Coolidge became the first president to attend the dinner in 1924. In 1978, Jimmy Carter declined to attend, citing exhaustion. First lady Rosalynn Carter and Vice President Walter Mondale also didnt show up that year, No one is happier, no one is prouder to put this birth certificate matter to rest than the Donald, said Obama, who ultimately released his birth certificate. Thats because he can finally get back to focusing on the issues that matter, like: Did we fake the moon landing? What really happened in Roswell? And where are Biggie and Tupac?All kidding aside, obviously, we all know about your credentials and breadth of experience, Obama said. For example, no seriously, just recently in an episode of Celebrity Apprentice, at the steakhouse, the mens cooking team did not impress the judges from Omaha Steaks. And there was a lot of blame to go around but you, Mr. Trump, recognized that the problem was a lack of leadership and so ultimately you didnt blame Little John or Meatloaf  you fired Gary Busey. And these are the kinds of decisions that would keep me up at night. Well-handled, sir. Well-handled. on the conservative blog Gateway Pundit, which compared the change in the U.S. debt load during Trumps first month in office with what happened for former president Barack Obama. Looking closer at these figures, they hardly add up to the success that Trump and Cain are claiming.The Gateway Pundit article says that the change in debt under Trump translates to a 0.1 percent reduction in the U.S. debt burden. Actually, it's .06 percent between Jan. 20 and Feb. 21 -- a very small change. (The national debt has gone up or down by as much .19 percent on single days this year.)For one, Trump is citing such a narrow window of time that the statistics hes pointing to dont mean very much. The level of debt fluctuates day to day and week to week, depending on seasonalchanges in growth and when the government makes payments, collects tax revenue, issues new debt and other debt matures  making the data very susceptible to cherry-picking.On Thursday,the public debt outstandingwas $19.9 trillion  or, to be more exact, $19,913,903,120,188.10. And while that isless than it was on Inauguration Day, it's $29.2 billion more than it was on Feb. 8. All that goes to say you can't pay attention to infinitesimal movements in the debt week-to-week.Its impossible to know whether Trumps election has really had time to filter through to concretely affectthe economy. Congress has not passed any of his policies yet. The stock market has certainly continued to boom, but it was already rising before the election.While it's possible anticipation of tax cuts or regulatory relief is heating up the economy and leading to increased government receipts, investors might also be choosingnot to sell assets to avoid current capital gains tax rates and waiting to see whether the Republican-dominated Congress successfully slashes rates.As for the comparison to Trump'spredecessor, Obama took office amid the depths of a historic recession that had started over a year before he entered the White House. The U.S. economy was shedding more than 700,000 jobs a month and the unemployment rate was more than double its current level.Dire economic conditions like these naturally inflate the debt level. As people lose work, take out unemployment insurance and draw on food stamps, the government both doles out far more in supportive payments and takes in less revenue in the form of taxes. over the beginning of the Obama administration.It's important to note that while Trump and the figures refer tototal public debt outstanding, this is not the most commonly used number by budget experts. That's because a little less than one-third of the total public debt outstanding is money the government owes itself in the form of expected Social Security payments and the like. Most experts focus on the debt held by the public  banks, ordinary people, foreign countries,etc.That was $14.4 trillion on Thursday.In 2009, the debt as a percentage of gross domestic product, a common measure, went to 52.3 percent from 39.3 percent the year before. That was the result of the massive shortfall in tax revenue because ofthe Great Recession and substantial new fiscal spending to support the economy. Today, the debt-to-GDP ratio stands at 77 percent, and it's The question is whether under Trump, the debt will decline, continue to rise gradually or explode. While Republicans pushed for a balanced budget during the Obama administration, Trump's brand of populist economicsdoesn't seem as focused on containing the debt. His agenda involves massive tax cuts and largeincreases in spending on defense and infrastructure, which independent budget experts suggest will explode the debt. his tax plans would cut federal tax revenue over the next 10 years by at least $6.2 trillion. And that's before taking into account Trump's spending plans. Republicans say tax cuts will pay for themselves by speeding up economic growth, but most independent experts  even those who favor tax reform  doubt the GOP's rosy predictions. And Republicans also tend to favor big cuts to entitlement programs, although Trump has said he opposes such cuts.But Dean saidhe sees a Nixonian patina in how Trump's administration has tried to get the U.S. intelligence community to play down alleged tieswith Russia.This week, several news agencies reported that the administration askedsenior members of the intelligence community to counter stories about Trump associates' ties to Russia.What it did is it caught Richard Nixon in a lie, because he had denied he had known anything about any cover up until I told him much later, when I started having direct dealings with him, Dean said. And it was the lie that caught him more than that particular incident.The House and Senate are controlled by the Republicans, theyre not going to impeach their president, he said. As long as he gives them what they want and signs into legislation or signs into law a lot of the things that theyve had in their dreams for many years, theyre not going to give him any problem. But President Trumps wall-building, great-again nationalism is reviving the old Mexican version, too.His characterization of tougher border enforcement and immigration raids as a military operation hit the nerve that runs through this legacy, undermining his  in a dozen cities this month, carrying grotesque effigies of the American president. And Trumps taunts have buoyed the poll numbers of 2018 presidential contender Andrs Manuel Lpez Obrador, the left-wing populist Mexicans see as the figure most likely to fight back.For Mexicans, the problem is not merely the wall. They know their country is poorer, more violent and less law-abiding than the United States. If Trump had announced plans for tougher border security,many Mexicans would have understood, even as they criticized him.But when they hear Trump boasting he will make Mexico pay for the wall, and the wild cheering in response, they recognize an unmistakable attempt to humiliate them. It is American nationalism at Mexicos expense, and it stings in a deep, atavistic way, like a childhood bully coming back to beat you up again.Theresult of these encounters, according to Mexican historian Lorenzo Meyer, is that the two countries developedvastly different forms of nationalism. Mexicos is a defensive one, he said, steeped in a sense of injustice and indignity, unlike the more belligerent northern version,of American exceptionalism and militarizedPacheco never thought about this history much. But the diplomatic clashes of the past few weeks have left him shocked. He is a fan of American music and movies and the Super Bowl. For most of his lifetime, the two countries have been steadily growing closer.Mexicans, too, are divided about what to do. This month, protesters held two marches in the capital. Both were anti-Trump, but one was also a demonstration against the deeply unpopular Pea Nieto, whom organizers view as a Trump-enabler. Others, including tycoon An ironyof the spat with Pea Nieto is that he has already paid a steep political cost for enacting controversial energy changes favored by American companies. He has opened Mexican oil and gas development to greater foreign investment, but that has only led to higher prices for angry Mexican consumers and lower poll numbers for him. Mexican President Lazaro Cardenas nationalized the holdings of Standard Oil and other foreign companies in 1938, infuriating the firms but delighting Mexicans. In a show of patriotism, thousands of Mexican women came to a central square in Mexico City offering money, wedding rings and livestock to pay the companies back. I grew up in a country where you were taught in obligatory history textbooks that the United States was the enemy, the country that stole half our land and the country of the Ugly American, said Denise Dresser, a prominent Mexican political scientist whose father was a U.S. citizen. Trumps comments are forcing a re-examination of Mexicos relationship with the United States, from its intricate commercial and industrial ties to deepening cooperation with U.S. law enforcement. New legislation in Mexicos senate would halt imports of American The agreement took an aspirational view of U.S.-Mexico ties. It recognized the two countries were significantly different. But it treated Mexico essentially as an equal partner, along with Canada, increating a prosperous, democratic and collaborative place called North America, quietingthe skeptics who insisted Mexico didnt belong there.Trumps America First worldview restores the idea of industrial products as vessels of patriotism. But it has left Mexicansbaffled by the claim their country is taking advantage of the United States through NAFTA. Mexican workers earn a small fraction of what their American counterparts make, and the trade partnership is overwhelmingly driven by U.S.-based Fortune 500 companies. Mexican cities have filled with U.S. chain stores and restaurants, not the other way around., a former U.S. ambassador to Mexico, sees the return of the animal spirits that once soured relations between the two countries.But Garza, who served from 2002 to 2009 under President George W. Bush and now works as an attorney in Mexico City, said hes seen something different in the resurgent nationalism on Mexicos streets.