the-guardian-uk
 and Brexit spokesman Keir Starmer both delivered pointed criticism of Corbyn for his refusal to take any blame for the loss of the Labour stronghold, saying it was time for the leadership to undertake a thorough re-examination of the partys entire direction.Starmer, in a speech in London, said the worst thing Labour could do would be to normalise defeat and walk past results that were disastrous for the party and merited an honest admission that all was far from well. Pressure on Corbyn mounted further as , Watson said he was hugely disappointed with a result that meant that all of us with leadership roles need to have a long, hard look at ourselves and ask whats not working. Seven years into a Tory government, we shouldnt be facing questions about whether we can hold the seats we already hold.Referring to the partys virtual wipe-out north of the border, he said: Here in Scotland, youve seen what happens when Labours long-term supporters stop voting Labour. We cant afford to have that happen in England, too. This is not the time for a leadership election. That issue was settled last year. But we have to do better. We cannot sustain this level of distance from the electorate, from our natural supporters.Starmer said: The Labour party exists to change peoples lives. But we cant do that if we dont win elections. Copeland was a very bad result for Labour. I dont think weve been honest enough about how bad it was.. [We cant] walk past results we know are letting down the people that most need a Labour government.Labours collapse among working-class voters is catastrophic  according to YouGov, only 16% would vote Labour at the moment. Thats troubling enough for the party of working people, but it is made doubly damaging because, contrary to expectations, Ukip is not proving the main beneficiary, he says. These voters are increasingly voting Conservative. After seven years of Tory austerity, Labour is 15 points behind the Conservatives among working-class likely voters, having been ahead in 2015.Watson also used his speech to denounce the idea of any form of alliance with another party to see off the Tories. The idea of a progressive alliance is an electoral dead end. The last general election should have made that absolutely obvious to us all. Remember those awful posters, Ed Miliband in Alex Salmonds pocket? They were brutal, they were unfair, but they were effective.The Tories weaponised the idea of a progressive alliance  of Labour propped up by the SNP  and used it as an electoral stick to beat us with. Telling the people of Scotland that they didnt need to vote Labour to get a Labour government, and telling the people of England that a vote for the Labour party was a vote for the SNP.It has emerged that Robert Mercer, a hedge-fund billionaire, who helped to finance the Trump campaign and who was revealed this weekend as one of the owners of the rightwing Breitbart News Network, is a long-time friend of Nigel Farage. He directed his data analytics firm to provide expert advice to Cambridge Analytica, an offshoot of a British company, SCL Group, which has 25 years experience in military disinformation campaigns and election management, claims to use cutting-edge technology to build intimate psychometric profiles of voters to find and target their emotional triggers. Trumps team paid the firm more than $6m (4.8m) to target swing voters, and it has now emerged that Mercer also introduced the firm  in which he has a major stake  to Farage. that the longstanding friendship between Nigel Farage and the Mercer family led Mercer to offer his help  free  to the Brexit campaign because of their shared goals. Wigmore said that he introduced Farage and Leave.eu to Cambridge Analytica: They were happy to help. Because Nigel is a good friend of the Mercers. And Mercer introduced them to us. He said, Heres this company we think may be useful to you. What they were trying to do in the US and what we were trying to do had massive parallels. We shared a lot of information.The strategy involved harvesting data from peoples Facebook and other social media profiles and then using machine learning to spread through their networks. Wigmore admitted the technology and the level of information it gathered from people was creepy. He said the campaign used this information, combined with artificial intelligence, to decide who to target with highly individualised advertisements and had built a database of more than a million people, based on advice Cambridge Analytica supplied. Two weeks ago Arron Banks, Leave.eus founder, stated in a series of tweets that Gerry Gunster (Leave.eus pollster) and Cambridge Analytica with world class AI had helped them gain unprecedented levels of engagement. AI won it for Leave, he said.Brittany Kaiser, an employee of Cambridge Analytica/SCL, appeared on a panel at a Leave.eu press conference to explain the technology behind the campaign. And in documents Leave.eu filed with the commission, it reported that Cambridge Analytica was a strategic partner.that Cambridge Analytica had worked on the Leave campaign and received a letter from the campaign to say this was untrue. It later wrote to say: It is a US company based in the US. It hasnt worked in British politics. It declined to comment last week on whether it had donated services to Leave.eu.details today, the strategic disruption of the mainstream media. A brilliant computer scientist who did pioneering work at IBM in AI, Mercer made billions with Renaissance Technologies, a hedge-fund that specialises in automated trading. As well as financing Trumps campaign, he encouraged Trump to take on two key advisers  Breitbart, which has become the leading platform for the alt-right, is only one of a series of investments that aim to change the media landscape and political views not just in the US but also in Britain. A British version of Breitbart was launched in 2014, Bannon told the , explicitly to try to influence the upcoming general election. He and Farage have been close friends since at least 2012 and the site has been an important cheerleader for Ukip, with its editor, Raheem Kassam, at one point working as chief adviser to Farage.Until now, however, it was not known that Mercer had explicitly tried to influence the outcome of the referendum. Drawing on Cambridge Analyticas advice, Leave.eu built up a huge database of supporters creating detailed profiles of their lives through open-source data it harvested via Facebook. The campaign then sent thousands of different versions of advertisements to people depending on what it had learned of their personalities.A leading expert on the impact of technology on elections called the relevation extremely disturbing and quite sinister. Martin Moore, of Kings College London, said that undisclosed support-in-kind is extremely troubling. It undermines the whole basis of our electoral system, that we should have a level playing field.But details of how people were being targeted with this technology raised more serious questions, he said. We have no idea what people were being shown or not, which makes it frankly sinister. Maybe it wasnt, but we have no way of knowing. There is no possibility of public scrutiny. I find this extremely worrying and disturbing.In a statement on Saturday, Mason said the WHCA looks forward to having its annual dinner and added: The WHCA takes note of President Donald Trumps announcement on Twitter that he does not plan to attend the dinner, which has been and will continue to be a celebration of the first amendment and the important role played by an independent news media in a healthy republic., told the Guardian on Saturday Trump should act as a champion of press freedom around the world, rather than attacking the media in a way that could send a signal to other countries that it is OK to verbally abuse journalists and undermine their credibility. In a statement, Guardian US editor Lee Glendinning said the exclusion of news outlets from Fridays briefing was deeply troubling and divisive and added: Holding power to account is an essential part of the democratic process, and thats exactly what the Guardian will continue to do.One in five species on Earth now faces extinction, and that will rise to 50% by the end of the century unless urgent action is taken. That is the stark view of the worlds leading biologists, ecologists and economists who will gather on Monday to determine the social and economic changes needed to save the planets biosphere.Threatened creatures such as the tiger or rhino may make occasional headlines, but little attention is paid to the eradication of most other life forms, they argue. But as the conference will hear, these animals and plants provide us with our food and medicine. They purify our water and air while also absorbing carbon emissions from our cars and factories, regenerating soil, and providing us with aesthetic inspiration.Rich western countries are now siphoning up the planets resources and destroying its ecosystems at an unprecedented rate, said biologist Paul Ehrlich, of Stanford University in California. We want to build highways across the Serengeti to get more rare earth minerals for our cellphones. We grab all the fish from the sea, wreck the coral reefs and put carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. We have triggered a major extinction event. The question is: how do we stop it? has deemed an urgent issue for the Catholic church. We need to unravel the processes that led to the ills we are now facing, said one of the conferences organisers, the economist Sir Partha Dasgupta, of Cambridge University. That is why the Vatican symposia involve natural and social scientists, as well as scholars from the humanities. That the symposia are being held at the Papal Academy is also symbolic. It shows that the ancient hostility between science and the church, at least on the issue of preserving Earths services, has been quelled. is needed to halt the worlds spiralling population  has been denounced by many conservative Catholics. They have set up a petition calling for the pope to withdraw the invitation for him to speak on Monday. I believe they have about 11,000 signatures, Ehrlich told the He remained uncompromising on population control: If you value people, you want to have the maximum number you can support sustainably. You do not want almost 12 billion living unsustainably on Earth by the end of the century  with the result that civilisation will collapse and there are only a few hundred survivors.A world population of around a billion would have an overall pro-life effect, Ehrlich argued. This could be supported for many millennia and sustain many more human lives in the long term compared with our current uncontrolled growth and prospect of sudden collapse.This point was backed by another conference organiser, biologist Professor Peter Raven, of the Missouri Botanical Garden. By the beginning of the next century we face the prospect of losing half our wildlife. Yet we rely on the living world to sustain ourselves. It is very frightening. The extinctions we face pose an even greater threat to civilisation than climate change  for the simple reason they are irreversible.UN statistics suggest that the global population will increase from the current 7.4 billion to 11.2 billion by 2100. And as Dasgupta noted, most of these extra billions will appear in Africa, where the fertility rate is still twice that of the rest of the world.[Africas] population is likely to go from roughly one billion now to around 4 billion, said Dasgupta. Can you imagine what tensions there are going to be there, especially with climate change coming and hitting the continent more than anywhere else? What do you think is going to happen when the arid regions spread, and a hundred million Africans try to swim across the Mediterranean? It is terrifying.Ehrlich agreed: If you look at the figures, it is clear that to support todays world population sustainably  and I emphasise the word sustainably  you would require another half a planet to provide us with those resources. However, if everyone consumed resources at the US level  which is what the world aspires to  you will need another four or five Earths.has reported it received a leaked United States Anti-Doping Agency report and other documents from the Russian hackers Fancy Bears that suggested Farah was among athletes who were given prescription drugs when they had no medical need. Salazar believed the medications would lead them to run faster.The newspaper also alleged Farah and other Nike Oregon Project athletes were given infusions of the amino acid L-carnitine, which Salazar raved about to Lance Armstrong, telling him: Lance call me asap! We have tested it and its amazing, before the cycling stars downfall.L-carnitine is not a banned substance but infusions of more than 50ml in the space of six hours are prohibited. According to the paper, Usada believes the L-carnitine infusions given by intravenous drip to six top American runners training with Salazar almost certainly broke anti-doping rules.The report, written in March 2016, also states Usada found substantial and compelling evidence that Salazar and the doctor, Jeffrey Brown, conspired to collude together to use medications in sometimes potentially unlawful ways to boost athletic performance. Browns lawyers have denied the charges and said L-carnitine use was approved by Usada. designed to naturally boost his levels, and that photographic evidence of testosterone being noted in his medical notes was a recording error. Galen has clearly stated he did not take testosterone in December 2002 or at any other time, Salazar said. understands that the policy, announced by David Cameron and George Osborne and due to be introduced in April, is being looked at again, as housing and homeless organisations warn it will cause grave hardship and force cash-strapped councils to meet higher costs for emergency accommodation.Sources who have been involved in discussions with senior civil servants and ministers say the plans, which would affect an estimated 10,000 young people, are regarded as an unfortunate legacy of the austerity of the Cameron and Osborne years and will send out the wrong messages and fail to achieve their objective of saving 95m by the end of this parliament.Under the plans, which were included in the 2015 Tory manifesto, certain groups would be exempted including vulnerable young people and those unable to return to live at home with their parents. Those with children and those in work for six months prior to making a claim would also be exempt.Organisations including the charities Shelter, Crisis and Centrepoint have been lobbying hard against the removal of what they describe as an essential safety net. They argue that if young people are stripped of the ability to claim housing benefit, many who cannot or do not want to live with their parents will be driven on to the streets, leaving local authorities  particularly in London  with the huge extra costs of their obligation to provide emergency accommodation.Anne Baxendale, Shelters head of policy, research and public affairs, said: Were deeply concerned by the imminent plan to bar 18- to 21-year-olds from receiving housing benefit at a time when rough sleeping is on the rise. Taking away the safety net that stands between some young people and the streets would be utterly indefensible.Put simply, not all young people have the option of living with their parents. For a small number of truly desperate young people  like those escaping an abusive household or thrown out because of their sexuality  housing benefit helps to pay for their hostel beds. Worryingly, its by no means clear how this group in exceptionally difficult circumstances will be protected when the new cut comes in.Baxendale added that the government had failed to provide enough reassurance that the removal of housing benefit wont perversely result in more homeless young people. Ultimately, if we dont want to see 18- to 21-year-olds forced to sleep rough, then its time the government abandons these cuts.With no guarantee that exemptions to the policy for some vulnerable young people will actually prevent them slipping through the safety net, the governments plans could cost the taxpayer more money than it saves and force more young people into homelessness.Research by Heriot-Watt University found that, once the costs of vital exemptions and costs to other public services have been taken into account, the policy would save a maximum of 3.3m. It found that only an additional 140 young people would need to become homeless before the policy would end up costing more than it saved.Every reasonably-sized company in the flourishing financial technology sector  involving e-lending, money transfers and the banking markets  is now actively looking at moving staff and investment out of the country because of the uncertainty caused by Brexit, it is claimed.Simon Black, chief executive of PPRO Group, reputedly one of the fastest-growing fintech businesses in Europe, said his firm was now starting an operation in Luxembourg because of question marks over whether UK-based companies would still be able to trade in the rest of the EU under current passport rules which are granted to all member states.I dont know of a licensed fintech company in the UK that isnt looking at options, he said. Everyone is thinking about it and anyone that is any size, that is employing more than 10 people, is active. The exodus is beginning. It will be more visible in 2018.Black said the industry could not wait for the outcome of Brexit negotiations, so investment that could have been made in the UK was being diverted overseas. We have to plan for the scenarios when passporting ends, and that means we have to get a licence in another EU country.The reason we cant wait for results from the negotiation is that the full application process can take, in some countries, from six months right up to 18 months, and maybe longer. Then you need to recruit locally, you need specialists in compliance. It is a really big undertaking.Last week the French centrist presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron said he would take a tough line in Brexit negotiations if elected to lead France, raising fresh concerns that any arrangement for the City of London will be hard-fought. Macron also called for startups and businesses to come to his country.Black said: I expect passporting rights will be one of the last things that gets sorted in the negotiations. After listening to Macron, I think the EU guys are going to hold on to that bargaining chip. There are incredibly envious eyes being cast towards our financial services industry. We cant wait. Thats the point, and there are many other companies like us.Black said he looked at settling in Ireland, the Netherlands, Belgium and the Czech Republic before opting for Luxembourg, where he has already recruited a managing director. Startup costs alone, including the application for regulatory approval on the continent, would cost 1m of his 31m turnover, he estimated.He said: Most of that money would have gone into the UK. We have 20 people in London, and that has grown rapidly. Without Brexit I would have been very confident that within five years it would be 200 people in London. Now it would be more like 40 to 50, and most of the difference will go into Luxembourg.I know of a couple of companies that have shelved their international expansion. I know one big US investment bank, someone I spoke to at a conference last week, and he said their plans are much more advanced than has been picked up on by the press.Germany has overtaken us as the fastest growing economy in Europe, and the EU is now out-performing the US. Yet Theresa May wants to surgically remove us from the European Single Market. And to think that the Conservatives used to be the party of business.One in four hospital inpatients smokes, but too many hospitals do too little to try to help them to give up. I want people who are in a hospital bed or in a consulting room to have a conversation about their smoking with a member of staff and, if they want to quit, refer them on to stop smoking services, Selbie, PHEs chief executive, told the We talk a lot about sugar and diet as health risks, but smoking remains the UKs biggest killer and is responsible for near half a million admissions to hospital each year. One in four beds is occupied by a smoker and seven in 10 of them want to quit. It is time to consign tobacco to history and for the NHS to help people to give up.The RCM is supportive of pregnant women being offered carbon monoxide testing at a time when it is appropriate to do so. Depending on the circumstances, it could be at the initial antenatal booking or during subsequent antenatal visits. Women should have the ability to decline testing as with any other area of antenatal screening, said Janet Fyle, the RCMs professional policy adviser.But the NHS needed to understand that some women, especially those from poorer backgrounds, smoke as a way of helping relieve the stress of preparing to have a baby, Fyle added. Having a baby and caring for a newborn along with other family members is one of the most stressful life events for some women, as some new mothers struggle to adapt to their new roleswith little or no social support, she said.We know that the incidence of smoking is higher in lower socioeconomic groups. We cannot ignore the psychological, social or economic circumstances of new mothers when developing strategies for how we communicate the risks of smoking and health care.We falter before ill patients in pyjamas dragging their IV fluid stands out into the winter street in front of a hospital to have a fag, we pass with no comment past colleagues clustered around the emergency department exit having a communal smoke  some staff even smoke with patients at the exits of mental health units or in the last few remaining smoking shelters. Tolerating smoking on NHS premises is a form of collusion, she said.The National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (Nice) already advises hospitals to screen pregnant women to see if they smoke. However, many do not do so, even though recent evidence shows that it helps double the number of women who quit smoking during pregnancy and that those who do go on to have heavier and healthier babies. Selbie praised Taunton and Somerset NHS Trust for playing messages recorded by children over the loudspeaker system in its grounds to ask those who are smoking to stop. The South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust tells patients in all the letters it sends them that they should not bring tobacco, cigarettes, lighters or matches on to its premises or smoke anywhere in its grounds.Selbie also highlighted Medway NHS Foundation Trust in Kents raft of anti-smoking measures, including its use of wardens to patrol the grounds telling people to stop smoking and a policy of frontline staff checking a patients smoking status and referring them for specialist help to quit if wanted.It also suggests that lesbians and gay men with what may be seen as feminine traits would be at serious risk if forced to return. But the guidance goes on to argue that as the Afghan government has not recently prosecuted anyone for homosexuality, and the Taliban do not currently threaten the capital, a closeted gay Afghan could live safely in Kabul.While space for being openly gay is limited, subject to individual factors, a practising gay man who, on return to Kabul, would not attract or seek to cause public outrage, would not face a real risk of persecution, the document says. In the absence of other risk factors, it may be a safe and viable option for a gay man to relocate to Kabul, though individual factors will have to be taken into account.This apparently puts the Home Office at odds with United Nations guidelines on refugees, which specify that LGBT people should not be required to change or conceal their identity to avoid persecution, said Paul Twocock, director of campaigns, policy and research atThere is very little space in Afghan society, in any location, to be an individual that openly identifies as LGBT. Social attitudes and the legal position of homosexuality means that the only option for a homosexual individual, in all but the very rarest of cases, would be to conceal their sexual orientation to avoidpunishment.The Home Office declined to comment directly on the new guidelines, saying only that each claim is considered on its individual merits, and in accordance with the UKs international obligations. Where someone is found to be at risk of persecution or serious harm in their country of origin because of their sexuality or gender identity, refuge will be granted, a spokesperson said.