the-guardian-au
Writing in the Daily Telegraph on Sunday, Abbotts former chief of staff claimed that Abbott was attempting to hold the Liberal party together in the face of a surge in One Nation support, despite his party colleagues near-universal opposition to his intervention.In a statement on Saturday, Mason said the WHCA looks forward to having its annual dinner and added: The WHCA takes note of President Donald Trumps announcement on Twitter that he does not plan to attend the dinner, which has been and will continue to be a celebration of the first amendment and the important role played by an independent news media in a healthy republic., told the Guardian on Saturday Trump should act as a champion of press freedom around the world, rather than attacking the media in a way that could send a signal to other countries that it is OK to verbally abuse journalists and undermine their credibility. In a statement, Guardian US editor Lee Glendinning said the exclusion of news outlets from Fridays briefing was deeply troubling and divisive and added: Holding power to account is an essential part of the democratic process, and thats exactly what the Guardian will continue to do.After the lights turned green, the car was driven directly at a crowd in a pedestrianised zone near a busy tram and bus stop, outside a Grimminger bakery. The car hit three people then struck a pillar, but was not going fast enough to trip the airbag. The driver got out and ran away from the tram station carrying a knife, but was spotted by bystanders who alerted the police. Officers trapped the man near the entrance to a swimming pool and ordered him to drop the knife, but, according to local media, he refused and was shot.The decision, which will provide negligible economic benefit and which in the FWCs own words will provide hardship to workers, was announced at 11am on Thursday  at a time when we would all expect a government agency to make such an announcement. And that is important because this decision was not about economics but about what the FWC believes the community expects and how our society has changed. The crux of the decision is contained in one sentence in the FWCs decision, where it suggests that for many workers Sunday work has a higher level of disutility than Saturday work, though the extent of the disutility is much less than in times past.But you dont need to be a regular church goer to know that Sunday is different from Saturday  just look at the Sunday papers; the television programming; the scheduling of football games. Ask yourself when you would most expect to have your kids playing junior sport  Saturday morning or Sunday? Ask yourself when you would be more likely to have a sleep in or a special family lunch. The FWC itself noted that while the differences between Saturdays and Sundays have converged over time, there remain significant differences in the activities performed on these days. And yet it believed those differences were not so significant as to reject calls to keep Sunday penalty rates higher. The FWC noted other economic factors influence whether or not the impact will be significant or even positive. But the evidence that cutting penalty rates alone will do anything is pretty weak. And we dont even need to use economic theory  we have the experience of the FWC cutting penalty rates for restaurant and cafe workers in July 2014 to go by. Laughably, none of the business owners called as witnesses by the restaurant and catering industry association were able to suggest to the FWC that the cut to penalty rates had caused them to increase either the number of employees or the number of hours worked. And yet the FWC itself rejected this notion, stating that in general, most existing employees would probably face reduced earnings. The FWC asserted that it was improbable that  existing workers hours on Sundays would rise sufficiently to offset the income effects of penalty rate reductions.In effect, the FWC has determined that Sundays are less important because those of us who dont work on that day are now more desirous to have the lowest-paid working in shops and cafes in order to serve us on our day off, and that they should receive less pay for doing so. Ali had been at a black history month event in Jamaica with his mother, Khalilah Camacho-Ali. She was allowed to enter the country after producing a photo of herself with her famous ex-husband, who died last year, but her son had nothing to prove his link to the boxer.To the Ali family, its crystal clear that this is directly linked to Mr Trumps efforts to ban Muslims from the United States, Mancini said, adding that they were trying to find out how many others faced similar questioning, and were contemplating filing a federal lawsuit.In a general sense, is it any wonder that few people think highly of democratically elected members of parliament? he said. Is it any wonder that there is a cynicism, that there is a scepticism, that there is a distrust of so many members of parliament when we see behaviour, appalling behaviour, just like this? Ill have no part of it and Ill make important changes to ensure what happened here can never occur again. It is self-evident that the second residence allowance is meant for regional MPs who must travel to Melbourne for parliament, he said in a statement on Saturday. For that reason, I have asked the special minister of state to urgently determine what changes are required so what has occurred in these instances does not happen again. once the jihadi group is routed. Ministers from the Kurdistan regional government (KRG) believe that one option might be offering to Baghdad land their peshmerga forces have recaptured from Isis in return for self-rule, the pinnacle of Kurdish ambition for decades.Speaking from his office in the Iraqi Kurdistan capital of Erbil, foreign minister Falah Mustafa said that, although the Mosul alliance of Iraqi and peshmerga troops was on course to quash Isis in Iraqs second city, the time had arrived for Kurdistan to move forward by itself.Bolstering Kurdistans newfound impetus for self-rule is the conviction that the Trump administration might be willing to support Kurdish dreams of independence. Already President Masoud Barzani of the Kurdistan region has seriously discussed independence with Mike Pence, the US vice-president.Mustafa said: The preliminary contacts we have had prior, during and after the US election are encouraging. We believe we have a good opportunity to further develop our ties. Soon there will be [more] contact with our leadership and the US leadership. Its all encouraging. We are optimistic.Peshmerga military sources point out that such territory was won at the cost of Kurdish lives. One officer said that, in one assault alone on the former Isis stronghold of Bashiqa, 31 peshmerga fighters were killed. As of last week, 1,682 had died and 9,787 were injured during its gruelling 30-month war against Isis, an intensive campaign that has exacted a punishing toll on the regions fragile economy.When asked what leverage Erbil was prepared to use in independence talks, Mustafa said that of course land was a factor to be considered. It is an important issue. Responsibility, territory, the oil issue, finances, the airspace  all need to be discussed. We want to start this dialogue with Baghdad peacefully, recognising that we will always have a strategic relationship, he said.Among most of the Kurdish norths 5.5 million population, severing ties with Iraq cannot come soon enough, with the sense that Iraqs central government no longer even pretends to care for Kurdish rights. Baghdad wants us to be subordinate, subjugated. We reject that. The deal with a federal In the two years we are fighting Daesh [Isis], all we got from Baghdad is some ammunition. They give almost nothing to the peshmerga, not their salaries, their costs, nothing, said Sinjari. But Sinjari also warned that, once Isis has been routed from Iraq, the dynamic that saw many Sunni Muslims initially welcome the group as liberators from the Shia-dominated forces of Baghdad might not easily be vanquished.Daesh will not finish quickly. Their territory will be defeated, but here [pointing to his head] they will stay. We have to solve the reason why Daesh have come. If we dont, another will come. Al-Qaida finished, then Daesh came. Daesh finished, another comes. wants everyone to know: the days since Australia last won a Test in India. Way back then, it was the only time the national side had triumphed in a series in this country since The Beatles stopped writing songs. Then, it was a team resembling the Harlem Globetrotters for the champions they boasted. It truly was their final frontier.When directly asked last month if his charges could do the same, the Australian captain avoided the question. It was taken as a tacit admission that he didnt believe it himself. And fair enough. After all, this Indian side shares many similarities to the Australians of 13 years ago for their dominance at home, going 19 Tests and four years unbeaten their turf. The pressure was off us wasnt it? Smith observed in the afterglow of the memorable, confounding rout. Everyone wrote us off and said India would win four-nil. Sure did. Careful expectation management? Less that, and more an evidence base of Australias demolition in their last nine starts on this continent.From the time India left Australia on the receiving end of a two-nil defeat two years ago, this return bout has loomed. No one could forget what happened last time. Optimistically, the plan was to get used to winning away again via an Ashes salute in England. Fine-tune in Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, flog a few teams at home, and then come here to be certified as the worlds best. Something like that. Instead, the road has been considerably more rugged.But now, a new reality where everything is back on the table. Where Smiths men can let their hair down and dream a bit. With a side nowhere near as accomplished as those who won here before them, but one that might have just enough of the right pieces in the right places at the right time. . His century was wondrous for different reasons to the usual. Smith is most often the guy who sets up the Test with a huge first innings; who bats 300 balls and destroys a contest before the opposition has batted. Second-innings tons are a different beast. Theyre seldom as fluent. Theyre tense. Theyre scrappy. This was all of that and more, with dropped catches, sketchy running and beaten edges all standard features . He still walked off as only the third Australian to reach three figures second time at bat in India. A dozen or more. Adaptation is the term that coach Darren Lehmann prefers. Th at is the essence of what the leadership of this team craves; to grow into considerably more than hometown bullies. To be strong above the shoulders, and for it to show around the world.His best innings? Its got to be right up there, Smith said after play. He acknowledged riding his luck, but added that you need to when the ball is turning square, and the two best finger spinners on the planet are coming at you. Thats the resilience he was talk ing about. Smith went on: I had to formulate some different plans to how I normally play, to problem solve on the spot. There is the definition of adaptation.Smiths calm was also highlighted due to his opposing numbers frustration. It was on display most obviously when burning his second innings reviews in a desperate effort to see optimistic shouts overturned. Th ose blunders hurt a lot more when Smith was leg-before on 77, with no provision to refer. Smith sensed that Virat Kohli was angry. Its hard to make good decisions when youre angry, perhaps explaining why he was later bowled without offering a shot.Then theres the uplifting story of Steve OKeefe, Smiths old housemate. He has one of those numbers too: 4,117. Th ats the number of times he has gone to bed between his New South Wales debut and today. A long time coming, he laughed after being named man of the match, enjoying his first innings 6-for-35 so much he 56 players had won baggy greens between then and now, 12 of those asked in one way or another to participate in Australias spin attack. It was enough time for his twin in tweak, Nathan Lyon, to become the most successful ever Australian finger spinner. Im just relieved, OKeefe said. After his first bag, he explained losing hope after his Sri Lankan tour was cruelly ended by injury. Today, hes a national hero.OKeefe also cites belief. Not necessarily that he would bowl Australia to victory, but that at the very least he could keep dropping into that same area, and in doing so he would always be in with a chance. Its a bit old-fashioned, but he is too. Equally, the belief that Smith showed in him as a bowler. He now has the best figures ever registered by an away spinner in India.The surface may never suit OKeefe  or forgotten man Lyon  quite as well as it did this week. After ordering the local curator to produce a dry turner in Pune, surely the powers-that-be will hear Smith when he says the conditions played into our hands.Whatever the case, you can bank on both OKeefe hitting his spot, and Smith setting the example by batting in a way that embodies his words. Then, if they do it all again next weekend, they will have a trophy to pick up in Bangalore. Expectations. Who needs them? was elected chairman of the Democratic National Committee (DNC) on Saturday, after a fiercely fought campaign. He will now lead a party still divided after the surprising election of Donald Trump but energized by the liberal backlash to his presidency. When the result of the second ballot was announced, chanting erupted from the back of the hotel ballroom where Ellisons supporters sat, wearing green shirts and carrying signs that read unite. Not big money, party for the people, they chanted, drowning out the remarks of the interim chairwoman, Donna Brazile. The threshold for victory in the second round was 218 votes, out of 435 voters. Perez gained 235 to 200 for Ellison. After announcing the result, Brazile presented the gavel to Perez. He presented a motion to name Ellison as deputy chair, which passed unopposed. Perez made similar appeals. I really want to apologise to the media because we did talk about issues, he said, like Ellison heralding a campaign they said was free of partisan rancor. We didnt do any of the other stuff, and thats what the Democratic party is about.To his supporters, Ellison said: If you care about people who have their loved ones cemeteries being desecrated like the Jewish community is facing right now, if you care about people who have walls being built against them, being banned for their religion, and having their healthcare taken away from them, if you care about those people, then you got to stay in here and back Tom Perez for chair.This incredibly disappointing result is another missed opportunity for a Democratic party desperately trying to regain relevance said Jim Dean, chair of Democracy for America, which endorsed Ellison. [It] proves, once again, how out of touch party insiders are with the grassroots movement currently in the streets, on the phone, and at town halls nationwide.After the vote, Perez said Democrats were suffering from a crisis of confidence, a crisis of relevance, but promised to take the fight to Trump and to support Democrats against Republicans in elections nationwide. On Twitter, he responded to Trump in kind:When voting began, members voted by paper ballot and had two minutes to make their choice among the six candidates then still in the running. The first count was excruciatingly close. Perez finished with 213.5 votes, having needed 214.5 to win. Ellison won 200, taking the contest into a second round.In the frantic moments between the results and the distribution of the second ballots, the campaigns and their supporters spread across the convention center ballroom in a last-ditch attempt to sway members to their side. Perez waded into the crowd, smiling and shaking hands as he secured commitments.The popular, 35-year-old Rust Belt mayor and openly gay Afghanistan veteran left the race after a streak of national media attention and without angering either faction. He is widely believed to hold higher political ambitions, especially as a young member of a party in search of new talent. As chair  in equal parts a tactician, a fundraiser and an opposition leader  Perez will need to immediately prepare for races in 2017 and the midterms in 2018. Part of the challenge will lie in healing the rift between centrists and progressives while developing a message to resonate beyond liberal enclaves.Racing 92 later said in a statement that Williams has been suspended as a precautionary measure and also apologised to fans for the incident. If the investigation confirms [Williamss] possession of cocaine and the transaction, it would not only be a crime under the law but also a serious mistake in view of our ethics, said the club, while adding that Williams deserved the presumption of innocence.