usa-today
A Philadelphia recycling firm contends it bought the letters T-R-U-M-P from two signs awaiting disposal earlier this month for $250 and now hopes to sell them for more than $100,000, according to a lawsuit filed Friday in Common Pleas Court in Philadelphia.The letters were taken to Philadelphia, where the recycling firm "immediately" offered one set for sale on eBay, according to the suit. "Within days, the bidding reached $7,500, with hundreds of individuals bidding or watching the progress of the auction to make later bids."But the suit says Eastern Sign, after learning of the auction, "sought to repurchase the letters, now claiming they were sold without authority." It contends the security guard who had spoken to the partners "now claimed the letters were stolen and sought to involve the local police."It argues that if Eastern Sign "cannot deliver title to the ten iconic letters," it should be required to compensate the recycler "for the fair market value (RUMP) could have achieved by properly marketing the iconic letters at private sale or public auction."Ali Jr., 44, and his mother, Khalilah Camacho-Ali, the second wife of Muhammad Ali, were pulled aside for questioning at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport on Feb. 7 while returning from a speaking engagement in Jamaica, Chris Mancini, a Florida lawyer and friend of the Ali family, told Customs spokesman Daniel Hetlage declined to provide details of the incident, citing policies that protect travelers' privacy, but he wrote in an email that the agency does not discriminate on the basis of religion, race, ethnicity or sexual orientation.Reached by phone, Hetlage said it's not uncommon for customs and border protection officers to pull travelers aside after initial passport inspection for a secondary screening, which can consist of additional questions and verification of a traveler's identity. What is asked in these interviews varies depending on the situation, he said, but "we have no interest in questioning anyone for two hours about their religion."Ali Jr., who was born in Philadelphia and holds a U.S. passport, told customs officers that he is Muslim, said Mancini, who added that the questions asked of Ali Jr. are indicative of profiling. He also said he and the Ali family are considering filing a federal lawsuit following the incident."To the Ali family, it's crystal clear that this is directly linked to Mr. Trump's efforts to ban Muslims from the United States," Mancini said Friday, referring to President Trump's executive order signed Jan. 27 that barred people from seven predominantly Muslim countries from entering the U.S. for 90 days.The WHCA takes note of President Donald Trump's announcement on Twitter that he does not plan to attend the dinner, which has been and will continue to be a celebration of the First Amendment and the important role played by an independent news media in a healthy republic, Mason said in a statement.WASHINGTON  The new head of the Environmental Protection Agency suggested to a gathering of conservative Republicans on Saturday that the agency could begin as early as next week the process ofrolling back some of the federal regulations put in place by the Obama administration.Critics charge the rule so broadly expands the federal governments authority that it would be able to regulate ditches and small bodies of water. The EPA finalized the rule in May 2015 but it has been blocked by a federal appeals court pending further legal challenges.Last February, West Manheim Township Police entered the southern Pennsylvania homeandnoticed the bed bugs. They crawled on walls and along ledges. Theyscurried on the bed sheets andpillow where an elderly woman slept in a first-floor room. She told officers she was blind, but could "feel them crawling." Sometimes, she added, they bit her, too.Stoner's familymoved her out of Butler's home on Feb. 3, 2016,after noticing her health worsen. During previous visits, Stoner's familytold police she was in good health. On Feb. 6, Stoner was brought to the emergency room, where doctors found sores on her skin. Staffmembers wereunder the opinion the woman'sinfection was a result of bed bug bites.In talking with police prior to Stoner's death, Butler told them she had been trying to get rid of the bed bugs since September 2015 and had used store-bought supplies. She said she could not afford an exterminator and blamed Stoner for bringing in the bugs, documents state.Butler,who was charged last week, had taken Stoner to her family doctor in January because Stoner had been scratching her neck and been sick. Butler did not mention bed bugs during the doctor's appointment, police said, and Stoner didn't mention them either.ATLANTA  Democrats chose President Obamas former Labor secretary, Tom Perez, as the person to lead them out of a political wilderness of heavy losses at every level of government over the past eight yearsand amid tensions between moderates and progressives about how to rebuild the party after Hillary Clinton's unexpected presidential loss to Donald Trump.Perezs election as the next Democratic National Committee chair is a reflection of the partys leftward tug all of the contestants packaged themselves as progressives eager to tangle with Trump on voting and civil rights and economic policiesfavoring the wealthy.Perez, the party'sfirst Latino leader, won with 235 votesin a second round of balloting after coming one vote short of a majority in the initial round. His opponent, Rep. Keith Ellison, co-chairman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, received 200 votes. A group of Ellison supportersreacted angrily at the tally and stormed out chanting no big money. Party for the people.Within moments, Perez announced he would make Ellison a deputy chair as the room erupted in applause. Ellison urged everyone to support Perez. If we waste even a moment going at it over who supported whom we are not going to be standing up for those people, he said, referring to struggling Americans.A former Department of Justice civil rights lawyer, Perez emphasized his rsumfighting against former Sheriff Joe Arpaio in Arizona on immigration issues, stoppingvoter ID lawsand taking on Wall Street in the aftermath of the foreclosure crisis.Yet he was also the more establishment-alignedalternative in what essentially became a two-way race in the final stretch. Former Vice President Joe Biden and former Attorney General Eric Holder endorsed Perez. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders and other progressive leaders, including Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., favorited Ellison.Ellison's confrontational style raised some concerns about his ability to connect with white working-class voters in the Rust Belt states that flipped to Trump in 2016. Pennsylvania, for example, hadnt voted for a Republican president since 1988. ButEllison is also a powerful speaker who could have excitedthe party's progressive base.Former President Obama congratulated Perez on his win and his choice of Ellison as deputy. "What unites our party is a belief in opportunity  the idea that however you started out, whatever you look like, or whomever you love, America is the place where you can make it if you try," he said in a statement.The greatest challenges facing Perez will be uniting Democrats and rebuilding aparty infrastructurein need ofmajoroverhaul.Democrats not only lost the White House but alsoboth chambers of Congress in the past couple elections. At the state level, the party now controls the legislature in just 13 states, compared to 32 controlled by Republicans amid widespread complaints the DNC focused its resources on presidential races at the expense of local party building."We are suffering from a crisis of confidence, a crisis of relevance. We need a chair who can not only take the fight to Donald Trump ... We also need a chair who can lead turnaround and change the culture of the Democratic Party and the DNC," Perezsaid in a final appeal to DNC members,emphasizing the importance of "working to elect from the school board to the Senate."Party officials and keynote speakers made no attempt to conceal tensions between some Perez and Ellison supporters. Theres no secret that theres division, even in this camp, said Rev. Bernice King, the daughter of Martin Luther King, Jr. who addressed the crowd ahead of the vote. We came here in different ships and boats but were all in the same boat now, she said. If we dont come together as brothers and sisters, were going to perish as fools."Perez's challenge now will bepreventing his party from making the mistakes Republicans did in responding to their own grassroots rebellion. Just as the Tea Party pulled the GOP further to the right, there is a progressive pullto the left after a heated primary battle between Clinton and Sanders, who frequently drew connections between herand Wall Street interests.But even before Perez announced Keith Ellison as his deputy, Ellison made an appeal for unity. "Weve gotta walk out ofhere with unity not just between the candidates but between party members, he said. "Trump is right outside that door  and not just Trump but Trumpism.More immediately, themajor challenge for Perez is fundraising. The Republican National Committee raised a record $19.8 million in January. While the Democratic Partys traditional grassroots machine, labor unions, fight for survival, Republicans have built a powerhouse of outside groups like the Koch Brothers-funded Americans for Prosperity that is bolstering local GOP officials from county commissioner to governor.Weve got a tremendous wind at our back. Not only do we hold large majorities but the enthusiasm Im seeing among the grassroots among state and county committee people and this new insurgence of Trump supporters is like nothing Ive ever seen, said Val DiGiorgio, chair of the Pennsylvania Republican Party.Democrats expectthe new chair to reinvigorate local parties whocomplainnational outside groups, like Obamas Organizing for Action, draintalent and resources resulting in a disproportionate share of resources going to presidential candidates.Theres something happening in this country right now, Kander said. This is a level of activism most of us have not seen in our lifetimes, he said. We may be living in the nightmare that is the Trump presidency, but we are awake, we are on our feet and we are marching forward."Buttigieg may have been the break-out star after withdrawing his nomination. In his speech, he called for healing even with Trump voters. The world is not divided into good people and bad people. Every one of us can and will do good things and bad things every day, he said.Leaders matter because of what they bring out in the rest of us, Buttigieg added. "Right now we have leaders who bring out the worst in us. They call on the darkest things within us, he said, calling on Democrats to become happy warriors. Koehn says hes never voted before last years election, when he was inspired to cast a ballot for Trump. He said hes embarrassed that Colorado voted for Hillary Clinton last year and wanted to show that Trump has healthy support in Colorados rural eastern plains.The Coast Guard regards Lewis as one of its most famous members, although she served in the agency's predecessor named the U.S. Lighthouse Service. She took over as keeper of the Lime Rock Light Station after her father, who had been the keeper, died in 1872, according to 