ars-technica
BARCELONA, SpainMobile World Congress is starting right now, and BlackBerry is the first out of the gate with a new phone. Remember the "The release of the KeyOne marks the end of BlackBerry's days as a hardware manufacturer. While the KeyOne  like it was designed by BlackBerry, from now on the hardware will be outsourced to TCL, a Chinese company that also owns the Alcatel brand. We've already seen the beginnings of this with BlackBerry finally released a spec list: The device is decidedly mid-range, with a 4.5-inch 1620x1080 LCD, a 2.0GHz Snapdragon 625 SoC, 3GB of RAM, 32GB of storage, a 3505mAh battery, a MicroSD slot, and a USB Type C port. There's a 12MP rear camera and 8MP front shooter, with Android 7.1 as the OS.Despite the mid-range specs, TCL is calling this a "flagship" device and pricing it like one. The company is asking $549 (599,499) for the KeyOne. This is an eye-popping sum considering you can get other Snapdragon 625 devices for At least the KeyOne has an aluminum frame, which gets exposed on the sides of the device, while the back is a plastic soft touch material.Some of the cost is probably sunk into the keyboarda physical QWERTY is rare these days.The keys are clickywith just the slightest physical distinction between them. After years of typing on a touchscreen, getting used to something like this would take a while. In my few minutes of playing with with the hardware keyboard, I was a mess at typing.The keyboard is touch enabled, just like on other BlackBerrys, allowing you to scroll by swiping over the keyboard. A new feature lets you to programall the hardware keys to do something on a long press. For instance, "B" can launch the browser, or "F" could launch Facebook. The traditional programmable BlackBerry "Convenience Key" is on the side.It's hard to be enthusiastic about something that is so wildly expensive for what is it.Considering how cheaply you can get devices with similar specs to the BlackBerry KeyOne, how much more moneyis a hardware keyboard worth to you? BlackBerry/TCL seems to be charging around $200-$300 extra. For that much, touchscreen keyboards are fine.suggests that the legalization of same-sex marriage is associated with a reduction in the proportion of high school students who reported making a suicide attempt. This study indicatesthat governmental policies regarding non-normative sexuality may have an influence on mental health outcomes for adolescents.The study used data from the state-level Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System, which tracks dangerous and risky behaviors exhibited by teenagers. Its authorsused data from forty-seven states, including thirty-two states that implemented same-sex marriage policies between 2004-2015. They looked at suicide behaviors in the full population of high school students and then did a secondary analysis usingthe subset of students who self-identified as belonging to asexual minority (gay, lesbian, bisexual, or unsure about their sexual identity).One limitation of using this type of data is that it depends on self-reporting of suicide attempts, which is tricky because suicide attempts are typically under-reported.This approach also meansthat the researchers did not include any information about teens who died from their suicide attempts; it only captures teens who attempted suicide but survived. This methodological limitation may seem like a big one, but the proportion of suicide attempts that result in teen deaths is very small, so suicide attempts are a reasonable proxy for overall teen mental health.The researchers used a differences-in-differences approach to analyze this data. Thisanalysis allows researchersto use observational data about an intervention to approximate the effects that would be seen in a randomized controlled trial for the same intervention. In other words, this approach treatsobservational data as though that data came from a natural experiment, one withan intervention group (states that implemented same-sex marriage) anda control group (states that did not). This method looks at the difference in pre-intervention suicide attempts data and post-intervention suicide attempts data for these two groups, hence the name difference-in-difference.The researchers quantified the difference in number of attempted suicides in states that passed laws legalizing same-sex marriage and states that did not pass those laws. Finally, they compared the difference in suicide attempts for the same two groups of states beforesame-sex-marriage legalization andafter.The comparison of these differences is important to ensure that changes in rates of suicide attempts are not associated with large-scale culturalchanges. By trackingindividual states, the researchers couldidentify local attitudes regarding sexual orientation. Still, the authors couldntcontrol for individual-level differences, such as economic statusor religious affiliation. These demographic characteristics could play an important role in determining the likelihood of a suicide attempt. Future studies that look more closely at individuals and their personal social context are needed.Using differences-in-difference, the researchers saw that legalization of same-sex marriage was associated with a statistically significant decline in suicide attempts for all teensa seven percent relative reduction in suicide attempts for adolescents of all sexual orientations. The association between same-sex marriage legalization and reduction in suicide attempts was also significant for teens who identified as sexual minorities. For this subgroup, there was a 14-percent relative reduction in suicide attempts after the passageof same-sex marriage laws.Looking at the longitudinal suicide-attempt data, the authors saw that these reductions in suicide attempts persisted for up to two years after legalization of same-sex marriage. The persistence of this dropsuggests that anybacklash regardingsame-sex marriage didnt make things any harder on teens.Malaria, a potentially deadly mosquito-borne infection, remains aproblem in many parts of the world. Reducing infectionshas been challenging because no vaccine is currently available. Prevention efforts have mostly concentrated on eliminating the transmission vector, mosquitoes. A recent study published in  shows that a new vaccine for malaria is well tolerated by humans and can provide significant immunity to malaria.. These are complex cells that have a number of means to evade the immune system, which has made the creation of vaccines challenging. To make thisnew vaccine, theparasites were first rendered harmless via radiation and then rapidly frozenfor preservation. Healthy adult volunteers were given three doses of this vaccine at 28-day intervals before being challenged with exposure to the malaria parasite. Under these conditions, nine out of the nine immunized participants avoideda malaria infection.Additionally, subjects who received non-optimized concentrations of the vaccine dose still exhibited some protection against infection, with one-third or two-thirds of vaccinated people demonstrating immunity, depending on the dose.This vaccine is considered safe and was well tolerated by all participants. In the whole study, there were no serious adverse consequences to vaccination. In fact, the frequency of adverse events was the same for people who received the vaccine and people who received a placebo.When researchers examined the blood of vaccinated individuals, they found a dose-response of antibodies against the malarial parasite, which was expected given the vaccination mechanism. The authors hypothesized that immunization worked because the immune systemeliminated parasite-infected liver cells during the parasites five-to-six day maturation period. In typical malaria infections, the parasites can stick toliver cells during this time, but laterspread throughout the body; this did not occur in immunized participants.The schedule for inoculation with this vaccine requires participants to be giventhree doses at twenty-eight day intervals. If this could be optimized for a shorter inoculation schedule, it would be easier to administer in regions with endemic malaria. However, two thirds of participants were immune when they were given three doses atfive day intervals, which suggests that some shorter immunization schedules could be effective.Though this study shows promising first steps in terms of immunization against malaria, this clinical trial was extremely small, with only nine volunteers in the group that showed fullimmunity. The authors of this study are also planning future workthat will determinehow long vaccine recipientsremain immune to malaria.describes a vaccine based on weakened versions of the malarial parasite.That involved another small trial, and the vaccine wasnt quite as effective as this, protecting only about two-thirds of those who received it. But the trial showed that it was effective against additional strains of the parasite.We may finally be on the verge of progress against a disease that has resisted eradication efforts for decades.Its a good time to be in the market fora gaming laptop that doesnt look stupid. Higher-powered laptops have begun to tick crucial checkboxes across the board, with smaller, super-powered GPUs landing in much less garish designs. In some cases, the result is a laptop youll love usingand wont be ashamed to be One of the latest to catch our eye is Alienwares R3 update to its 13-inch model. While some of its SKUsmay not win affordability awards, the R3 officially counts as a damned good laptop, gaming or otherwise. If your budget has room for a single portable productivity machine, Alienware might have the right balance of power, weight, design, and functionality for you, not to mention decent battery lifein a pinch.The Alienware 13 R3s most unique design feature may weird you out at first. With its lid closed, the hardware doesnt look odd, but once you lift the panel, youll discover a no-doubts-about-it 1.5 jut from its rear. The first time I noticed it, I looked for a detach button. I thought the R3 had an optional, removable dock, especially since its longest side is dotted with ports.Turns out, Alienware needed a little more motherboard and cooling space than the screen panels footprint afforded. Its an interesting bet by Alienware: that users would rather have a laptop jut out like something from 1999 while otherwise keeping its thicknessat a reasonable 0.87 inches (22mm).This emphasis on thinnessor, at least, as thin as a GTX 1060-fueled laptop currently getsis emphasized further by its slim screen panel, which measures at only 0.157 (4mm) thickin the review configuration I received. Sadly, this incredibly thin13.3 screen, which renders at a maximum 2560x1440resolution (1440p), is offset by staggering bezels. The biggest bezel, at the bottom, has the word ALIENWARE lit up with multi-colored LED backlights, as if the manufacturer thought the flashy lights might distract you from its size. Alienware could have removed this text explosion, blown up the screen another 3/4, and still left plenty of room for the front-facing sensor and camera array.This Alienware systems biggest design concession, then, is a laptop body that tricks you intoexpecting a 14 screen. I would have loved more screen real estate, but in most respects, I quickly forgave the jut. The systems thin profile and reasonable weight (for a gaming laptop, 5.8lbs/2.6kg is reasonable) has been a more crucial selling point, even though messenger bags designed for more conventional13.3 Macbook Pro and Air-sized laptops wont accept the R3.But the design strikes the right balance between noticeable and subtle for a laptop that doesnt look like a Red Bull-chugging games machine. The three-converging-line design on the aluminum front panel looks stylish, and its offset not by a bunch of giant bright neon logos but by a lonely Alienware alien head, which you can either light up or leave unlit (more on that later). Meanwhile, mild angles and tasteful separation in venting zones make them almost look like an aesthetic design choice, and the slight point on the top of the screen and the bottom of the laptop look appreciably unique and subtle.In terms of practical use, either at home or a coffee shop, I barely notice the laptops backside jut. Why? Because I angle my laptop screen during default use so that the jut and the top of the screen panel line up when looked at from a birds eye view. I also didnt notice the jutwhile the R3 was in my lap, except for a brief moment of lap use on a plane's coach seat. That was too cramped for me, which made myput the tray table up moment more annoying.Otherwise, more gaming laptop makers may want to take a look at the juts practical advantages and copy it shamelessly.The other feather in Alienwares cap is that this smaller screen lets the company sell a few SKUs. The cheapest of these uses a 1366x768panel for its screen, which brings the pricedown to as low as $999; that SKU includes a weaker but less power-hungryGTX 1050. We cant judge that models performance in battery life and gaming performance, since we didnt getone to test, but the lower-resolution displayalone would keep us from recommending that model.The system we tested is from the models highest-priced SKU. At $2,099, its priced a little lower than the more-storage, more-RAM $2,699 version, but most of its specs are otherwise maxed. Our system comes equipped with a GTX 1060, an i7-7700HQ processor, the 1440p screen, and an unusual upgrade: an OLED touch panel.I call it unusual because OLED technology is only beginning to propagate to bigger devices than touchscreen phones. At its best, the screen technology (which  in December) offers some of most incredible visual upgrades available in the current consumer-panel market, including perfect blacks and incredibly low blurring. At its worst, the technology has a shorter lifecycle than a standard IPS LCD, and it can suffer from image retentionproblems. Image retention has led some PC makers who use the technology to implement tricks like more aggressive sleep settings and hiding the Start menu and taskbar.In mice with either type I or type 2 diabetes, an intense, four-day fasting diet seemed to regenerate pancreas cells and restore insulin production. Researchers reported this finding on Thursday in In Petri dish experiments, human pancreas cells from patients with type 1 diabetes also showed altered gene expression and kick-started insulin production after being exposed to blood from people on a fasting diet.The results of the early work are promising for potential dietary treatments of both types of diabetes. Type I is caused by a loss of insulin production, while type 2 is caused by diminished production or insensitivity to insulin, a hormone that triggers the breakdown of sugar in the blood.But the research needs to be verified. Far more work in humans needs to be done before researchers can make any sort of conclusions or treatment recommendations. Experts warn that trying out the diet could trigger dangerous complications in diabetic patients.It boils down to do not try this at home, Dr. Valter Longo, lead author of the study and a researcher at University of Southern California, The mice were given a low-calorie, low-protein, low-carbohydrate, high-fat diet for four days. On the first day, the mice could only eat 50 percent of their normal calorie intake. For the remaining three days, the mice ate just 10 percent. Next, they got up to 10 days of normal eating, which allowed them to regain lost weight, before Mice that model type I diabetes saw a boost in their pancreatic beta cells, which generate insulin. In mice modeling type 2 diabetes, researchers saw restored insulin production and reduced insulin resistance."This is good science and does give promise for the future treatment of diabetes, immunologist Anne Cooke of the University of Cambridge Two decades ago, scientists found that the Universes expansion is accelerating. This was the complete opposite of what had been expected: the expansion should be slowing down due to gravity, not speeding up.At first,researchers didnt know how to account for it. But they went back to Einsteins equations for his General Theory of Relativity and discovered that a term hed abandoned as his biggest blunderthe cosmological constantactually described this expansionpretty well. There was only one problem: we cant see the energy thats driving the expansion. Nonetheless, researchers have gravitated to the idea that the energy is there, and they've labeled it But not everyone was convinced. Some wondered if there was another way to explain the Universes accelerating expansion. One possibility isthat gravity doesnt work the same way on cosmological scales as it does on local scales.The idea is appealing in thatit doesnt require the existence of a vast amount of stuff that wecant figure out how toobserve. While the idea hasn't gained much traction, it also hasn'tbeen ruled out.Early last year, scientists at the upgraded LIGO facility ushered in a new era of astronomy when they . Among many other things, this opens the door for researchers to definitively measure the speed at which gravitational waves propagate. One way this could be done is by comparing the arrival times of gravitational waves to the arrival of light generated by the same event. A possiblesource of radiation associated with LIGOs first gravitational wave source has been idenitifed, but theres controversy over whether the two are from the same event.A team of researchers, expecting a measurement to be madesoon, set to work on the theoretical side to determine what we can learn from the speed of gravity, which, it turns out, has consequences for the dark energy conundrum. If one of the modified gravity scenarios (the alternatives to dark energy) is true, it would have implications for the propagation of gravitational waves over cosmological scales.Specifically, the researchers determine, a universe with dark energywould have the speed of gravity equal to that of light. If the two speeds are  the same, then there is no dark energy, and we need to come up with an alternative theory of gravity.Not content to simply wait for LIGO to produce the data, the researchers proceeded to reevaluateexisting data to get an idea of how likely modified gravity scenarios are, given the speed restriction. If the Universe is able to accelerate itself through some modified gravity mechanism, we might be able to find some sign of it.The researchers derived the minimum alterations to gravity that would cause the Universe to accelerate its expansionwithout dark energy.They then compared the consequences of that model to the data. They examined things like geometric probes, [cosmic microwave background] data, and constraints from weak lensing, galaxy clustering, and the structure growth rate. The overall conclusion?The likelihood of amodified gravity is pretty low, three standard deviations less likely than dark energy.Although marginally still possible, our result sets a challenge to the concept of cosmic acceleration from a genuine scalartensor modification of gravity, the authors conclude.They do mentionthe possibility of exotic alterations to gravity that could produce the same observations. But overall, the paper raises hard questions for the alternative gravity models.Either way, Advanced LIGO could give us an additional testvery soon, and it may have done so alreadytwo events that are under analysis triggered an alert to other telescopes.As is the case in other sexual assault lawsuits involving the ride-sharing company, the woman argues that Uber has been negligent in its hiring practices. The company, she claims, is not as safe as it purports to be. the company over an alleged assault that he sustained after his driver apparently refused to take him from Philadelphia back to his hometown, nine miles away. Last year, two women in Boston settled their lawsuit with Uber on The Minnesota woman, referred to as Jane Doe, hailed an Uber with two of her friends to go to a Minneapolis bar. The driver who arrived to pick them up was a man identified as Abdel Jaquez, who, , "had a prior criminal record of a sexual crime against another woman, which would have been revealed by a detailed fingerprint-based background check of the type conducted regularly within the taxi industry."Jaquez allegedly drove the women and her friends to one bar. He and Doe exchanged numbers "so that, when they were ready to leave the brewery, they could take an Uber ride to their next destination." (This is not standard procedure for Uber rides.)Ms. Doe and one friend rode with Jaquez to the second bar. It was their understanding that Uber was continuing to charge them for this second ride via the Uber App. It was also their understanding that Jaquez continued to act as an Uber employee, on the clock, and that his status during the second ride was no different than it had been during the first ride.Once the two women were dropped off at the second bar, they exited the car. A few steps away from the car, Doe realized she had left her phone plugged into the auxiliary cable in the car and went back to retrieve it. The driver then "complimented and attempted to kiss her." When she , Jaquez allegedly began driving, with Doe only partially in the car. He pulled over and began "forcibly kissing and groping her." Eventually, the woman managed to flee. She rejoined her friends and told them what had happened.The lawsuit is unusually blunt and makes a point of saying that this negligence is, in fact, part of Uber's business model."Uber has placed profits over safety by deliberately lowering the bar for drivers in order to rapidly expand its network of drivers and thus its profits," the civil complaint argues. "This is a calculated decision by senior executives to allow Uber to dominate the emerging rideshare market at the expense of public safety."UPDATE 11:30am ET: Brooke Anderson, an Uber spokeswoman, e-mailed: "We'll decline comment on pending litigation."Welcome to a world of unimaginable wealth and rampant inequality, a world where monolithic corporations act as a law unto themselves, where automation and technological progress threaten to undermine the very foundations of society, and where frightened, forgotten, and furious citizens turn in droves towards political extremism.This is Fantasy Flight's dystopian Android universe. While you could be forgiven for mistaking it for the world of 2017, its actually a cyberpunk setting best known as the backdrop for the card game ), is the latest. The game casts you and your friends as heads of rival mega-corporations battling for power, prestige, and profit in the titular city. New Angeles is a sprawling metropolis thats home to the Beanstalk, a gargantuan space elevator that connects the Earth with lunar mining bases. Its also a designated special commerce zone, where businesses operate free from almost all government interferenceand thus the perfect place for an unscrupulous shark to make a couple million credits., you have to defeat a corporate rival chosen randomly and secretly from among your fellow players. Youll aim to finish the game with more capitalor victory pointsthan this rival, meaning that multiple players can win. And while a sharp and savvy executive can find plenty of ways to generate cash, thats not the games only concern. Almost every action you take has an effect on the broader city, sometimes sparking civil unrest and fueling resentment among the populace. Allow dissent to get out of control and the US government will step in to impose, whereweighing profits against populist outrage is a constant concern. While the game is ruthlessly, unabashedly competitive, it also comes with a huge element of reluctant cooperation.Zoomin and you start to see how effective cooperation is. The game revolves around manipulating the citys various districts. Each round sees neighborhoods produce different resourcesconsumables, tech, entertainment, energy, or credits. Youll need to produce different amounts of each to meet consumer demand at various points in the game. Failing to do so will dramatically increase unrest. But keeping districts productive is a challenge. For one thing, they only generate resources if android laborers are present at the end of a round. With your robot supply limited, you have to work with rivals to deploy bots judiciously.But robotic workers are themselves a source of discontent. Every time you exploit a neighborhood for resources, you spark protests, which shut down production until you find a way to deal with them. And you still have to contend with all the other threats, like disease outbreaks, power outages, political agitators, and organised criminal elements. gives you a lot to keep up with, and its made harder still by how you and your rivals have to coordinate in order to keep the city productive and profitable. You all start the game with a hand of action cards that give you a range of ways to interact with the board. These come in different varieties, and the games various corporations have access to different types. The Jinteki biotech conglomerate specializes in actions that cure disease. The Haas Bioroid Company excels at deploying android workers to the areas of the city where theyre needed. The NBN media syndicate can use its influence to calm disquiet.On your turn, you propose an action card from your hand; if everyone else agrees that your card is the best way to deal with the current situation, it will be enacted. Whats more likely, though, is that another player will put forward a suggestion of their own, and youll have to vote as a group on which proposal should go ahead.It's the perfect setup for a horror movie: there's a lonely house in the woods and a weird ritual that our naive protagonist Chris ('s Daniel Kaluuya) doesn't understand until it's too late. Except the "woods" are a bucolic suburb and the weird ritual is meeting his girlfriend Rose's family for the first time. But something even creepier than awkward small talk is going on. And that's where the horror/fun of Chris has a tragic past, but he's become a successful photographer and finally found happiness with new girlfriend Rose. They've been together for five months, and now he's ready to meet her family. But there's a little more tension than usual in this relationship rite of passage: Rose (' Allison Williams) is white, and she hasn't told her parents that Chris is black. Chris is nervous, but Rose points out that telling her parents: "Oh yeah, I'm bringing my BLACK boyfriend home" would have been even more awkward.But Chris' best friend (the hilarious, show-stealing Lil Rel Howery) disagrees. "Don't go to the white family house!" he warns. Of course he's right. But not for the reasons you expect. has some funny, well-observed moments as they clumsily try to bond with Chris by using the word "thang" and reassuring him that they loved Obama. Writer/director Jordan Peele, one half of the comedy duo , and he's in fine form here. Things get even more ridiculous when Chris discovers that Rose's family is hosting a party in honor of her late grandfather, which involves hordes of clueless old white people. All of them desperately, facepalmingly try to show that they are "down" with Rose's black boyfriend. At the same time, Chris starts to notice something... off. The few black people he sees among the family friends are alarmingly blank-eyed, eagerly behaving as servants, or (in one case) the much-younger lover of a beaming white woman who shows him off like a prize. The more Chris tries to talk to the black maid at Rose's house, the more convinced he is that something is wrong. Why is the maid so mechanical in her answers? Why does she keep unplugging his phone so that the battery runs down? And even more disturbingly, why does Rose's mom keep trying to hypnotize Chris? gradually veers from satire into psychological horror. Rose's white family, who at first seemed harmless, begin to act like Chris somehow belongs to them. Her brother makes comments about how Chris' "genetics" mean he would be a great boxer. Actor Daniel Kaluuya is terrific at playing Chris' transition from bemusement to terror, and Allison Williams is pitch-perfect as the stereotypical suburban white girl who As Chris is drawn more deeply into the bizarro secret at the heart of Rose's family, we get a series of reveals that are pleasingly unexpected. One kind of terrible conspiracy gives way to another, and the final truth is far more complicated than what you'd expect from a typical horror movie.  brings a racial twist to this theme: Chris is constantly being watched by white people. Early in the film, he's hassled by a police officer who takes one look at him and assumes he's up to no good. Later, at Rose's family party, all the white guests keep staring at him and making comments about how he looks. One woman even squeezes his bicep and asks Rose if "it's true what they say" about black men in bed.Tension mounts as these encounters become more over-the-top and exaggerated. Yes, they're funny. But they're also terrifying. Not just because we know that these white people are clearly in on some kind of plot, but because the film artfully reveals that life as a black person often means feeling like white people are watching you with not-so-friendly intentions. is its pacing. Writing good satire is hard, but writing good horror-satire requires exquisite timing. It's been a long time since a movie took me from laughing to abject horror in five minutes flat. Peele and his cast sell us on both the silliness and creepiness, and they make it so intense that the final moments of white-hot action (heh) are genuinely cathartic. may not break box office records, but it has more than earned its place in the cult movie hall of fame. You'll remember this little shocker a lot longer than you will the latest big budget flick to come out of the Hollywood meatgrinder this summer.. They bring a barrage of bug fixes, but little in the way of new features. The Windows SDK has been  for a couple of weeks now; combine that with the focus on fixing known issues, and we can assume that the software is being prepared for its final release.This doesn't mean that Microsoft isn't still making modifications in response to user feedback. Flash in Edge is going to be , and the latest Windows build will make it more obvious that Flash content has been blocked and can be manually re-enabled. The company is also refining the way Edge handles EPUB books so the browser can serve double duty as a Microsoft is also continuing to work on the out-of-box experience (OOBE). In the Creators Update, driving the initial system setup through voice commands will be possible using Cortanaand there's a new animation to support that. Presumably, this is preparatory work for a time when headless Cortana systems become available.A cursory use of the new build suggests it's less weird and glitchy than the last build that Microsoft published, so things feel like they're heading in the right direction.Even at this relatively late stage in development, though, weird bugs and problems are still cropping up. Although it should be available to everyone now, the PC build was initially released only for 64-bit machines, while 32-bit systems had a blocking issue.People installing the latest build may experience odd failures due to a broken registry entry. This build, like several before it, may still have strange broken audio and high disk I/O due to misbehavior from a process named spectrum.exe. Redmond says that the "primary bug" has been fixed, but problems endure.