associated-press
Former Labor Secretary Tom Perez, who is a candidate to run the Democratic National Committee, before speaking during the general session of the DNC winter meeting in Atlanta, Saturday, Feb. 25, 2017. (AP Photo/Branden Camp)ATLANTA (AP)  Democrats chose former Labor Secretary Tom Perez as their new national chairman Saturday over a liberal Minnesota congressman, capping a divisive campaign that reflected the depths of the party's electoral failures as well as the energy from resistance to President Donald Trump.Perez, the first Latino to hold the post, edged Rep. Keith Ellison in the second round of voting by Democratic National Committee members gathered in Atlanta. The new chairman must rebuild a party that in the last decade has lost about 1,000 elected posts from the White House to Congress to the 50 statehouses, a power deficit Democrats have not seen nationally in 90 years.In a nod to his winning margin of 35 votes out of 435 cast, to say nothing of the lingering friction between old-guard Democrats and outspoken upstarts, Perez tapped Ellison to serve as deputy chair."We are all in this together," Perez said, calling on Democrats to fight "the worst president in the history of the United States."Ellison, who had backing from many liberals, including 2016 presidential candidate Bernie Sanders, added his own call for unity and noted that he and Perez both want to rebuild state and local Democratic parties across the country."We don't have the luxury of walking out of this room divided," Ellison said, as the erstwhile rivals stood together on stage as some young Ellison supporters jeered from the gallery.Trump chimed in via Twitter: "Congratulations to Thomas Perez, who has just been named Chairman of the DNC. I could not be happier for him, or for the Republican Party!"Republicans control the White House, Congress and 33 governorships, while the GOP is one Senate confirmation from a conservative majority on the Supreme Court. Despite President Barack Obama's personal electoral successes, the party suffered crushing defeats, losing the House majority in 2010 and the Senate in 2014.Perez told party activists earlier in the day that Democrats face a "crisis of confidence" and "a crisis of relevance."The new chairman first entered the race upon urging from Obama and his inner circle. The former president released a statement praising both men after the vote."I know that Tom Perez will unite us under that banner of opportunity," Obama said, "and lay the groundwork for a new generation of Democratic leadership for this big, bold, inclusive, dynamic America we love so much."The son of Dominican immigrants, Perez comes to the job with a demonstrably liberal record as a civil rights attorney and backer of organized labor, but he carried the establishment label as a Maryland resident who's spent years in the Washington orbit, working in the Justice Department and ultimately as an Obama Cabinet officer.Former Vice President Joe Biden endorsed him; one of Obama's closest aides, Valerie Jarrett, made calls to DNC members on Perez's behalf as late as Friday night.Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi of California will remain the highest ranking Democrats in Washington. But Perez must now join with Schumer and Pelosi as part cheerleader, part fundraiser, part organizer and recruiter, part public messenger, helping frame the party's arguments and identity, while charting a strategy to turn energy into votes in upcoming elections.Perez and Ellison appeared together for a joint news conference afterward in a session that was originally planned to be the winner's opportunity to address reporters. Perez said they "are going to put our values in action" for a country he described as "fearful" over Trump's priorities.Besides his endorsement from Sanders, who challenged Hillary Clinton for the Democratic nomination, Ellison had backing from Schumer, who is not regarded as a hero of party liberals.Sanders released a statement congratulating Perez but warned "it is imperative that Tom understands that the same-old, same-old is not working."Jim Dean, chair of Democracy for America, called Perez's election "incredibly disappointing" and said the "resistance will persist ... with or without the leadership of the Democratic National Committee."Jeff Weaver, who managed Sanders' presidential campaign and now runs the offshoot "Our Revolution" group, said Perez and Ellison now must prove themselves as a leadership duo."Do they really invest in 50 state parties? Are they really going to engage with people in the streets?" Weaver asked. "Are they really going to bring those people into the party, so that you have a much broader cross-section of Democratically aligned voters represented?"Perez succeeds Chairwoman Donna Brazile, who led the party as interim chief in the fallout from disclosure of the DNC hacking.Brazile said the party has worked with cybersecurity experts to address vulnerabilities. She chided Trump for his mockery of DNC cybersecurity and his doubts that Russians are at fault, as U.S. intelligence officials have said.Hazmat crews gather at the main hall of Kuala Lumpur International Airport 2 in Sepang, Malaysia on Sunday, Feb. 26, 2017. Malaysian police order a sweep of Kuala Lumpur airport for toxic chemicals and other hazardous substances following the killing of Kim Jong Nam. (AP Photo/Daniel Chan)KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia (AP)  Malaysia's health minister said Sunday autopsy results suggested a nerve agent caused "very serious paralysis" that killed the exiled half brother of North Korea's leader, as police completed a sweep of the budget terminal where he was poisoned and declared it safe of any toxin.The investigation has unleashed a serious diplomatic fight between Malaysia and North Korea, a prime suspect in the Feb. 13 killing of Kim Jong Nam at Kuala Lumpur's airport. Friday's revelation by Malaysian police that the banned chemical weapon VX nerve agent was used to kill Kim raised the stakes significantly in a case that has broad geopolitical implications.Health Minister Subramaniam Sathasivam said the state chemistry department's finding of the VX toxin confirmed the hospital's autopsy result that suggested a "chemical agent caused very serious paralysis" that led to death "in a very short period of time." The VX agent can lead to death very quickly in high doses, he said.The killing of Kim Jong Nam took place amid crowds of travelers at Kuala Lumpur's airport and appeared to be a well-planned hit. Kim died on the way to a hospital, within hours of the attack.Tens of thousands of passengers have passed through the airport since the apparent assassination was carried out. No areas were cordoned off, and protective measures were not taken. Subramaniam said there have been no reports so far of anyone else being sickened by the toxin.Late Saturday, however, police said they would begin a sweep of the budget terminal where Kim was attacked to check for traces of VX.The sweep started around 2 a.m. Sunday involving officers from chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear teams, as well as the fire department's hazardous materials unit and the government's atomic energy board. Although VX is not radioactive, police said the radiological team and the atomic energy board were involved as a precaution.Abdul Samah Mat, the police official leading the investigations, said a two-hour sweep by more than a dozen officers in protective gear detected no hazardous material. He said the budget terminal is "free from any form of contamination of hazardous material" and declared it a "safe zone."Earlier Saturday, police warned they would issue an arrest warrant for a North Korean diplomat if he refuses to cooperate with the investigation.Experts say the nerve agent used to kill Kim was almost certainly produced in a sophisticated state weapons laboratory and is banned under an international treaty. But North Korea never signed the treaty, and it has spent decades developing a complex chemical weapons program.Kim was not an obvious political threat to his estranged half brother, Kim Jong Un. But he may have been seen as a potential rival in North Korea's dynastic dictatorship, even though he had lived in exile for years. North Korea has denied any role in the attack.Malaysia said earlier that Hyon Kwang Song, a second secretary at the North Korean Embassy in Kuala Lumpur, was wanted for questioning. But authorities acknowledged at the time he has diplomatic immunity and they couldn't compel him to appear.Abdul Samah, the police official, said authorities would give the diplomat reasonable time to come forward. "And if he failed to turn up ... then we will go to the next step by getting a warrant of arrest from the court," he told reporters.Lawyer Sankara Nair, however, noted that diplomats have immunity privileges even in criminal cases. "Police can apply for a warrant, but it can easily be set aside by the embassy," he said.Malaysia hasn't directly accused the North Korean government of being behind the attack, but officials have said four North Korean men provided two women with poison to carry it out.The four men fled Malaysia shortly after the killing, while the women  one from Indonesia and the other Vietnamese  were arrested.On Saturday, representatives from the Indonesian and Vietnamese embassies in Malaysia met with the two women.Indonesia's deputy ambassador Andriano Erwin told reporters that Siti Aisyah said she had been paid the equivalent of $90 for what she believed was a harmless prank. Aisyah, 25, said she had been introduced to people who looked like Japanese or Koreans who asked her to play a prank for a reality show, according to Erwin.Asked if she knew what was on her hands at the time of the attack, Erwin said: "She didn't tell us about that. She only said that it's a kind of oil, baby oil, something like that."An odorless chemical with the consistency of motor oil, VX is an extremely powerful poison, with an amount no larger than a few grains of salt enough to kill. It can be inhaled, swallowed or absorbed through the skin. Then, in anywhere from a few seconds to a few hours, it can cause a range of symptoms, from blurred vision to a headache. Enough exposure leads to convulsions, paralysis, respiratory failure and death.The Vietnamese woman, Doan Thi Huong, also thought she was taking part in a prank, Vietnam's foreign ministry said Saturday.In grainy surveillance footage, the women appear to smear something onto Kim's face before walking away in separate directions. Malaysian police said the attackers knew what they were doing and had been trained to go immediately to the bathroom and clean their hands.An antidote, atropine, can be injected after exposure and is carried by medics in war zones where weapons of mass destruction are suspected.Also Saturday, police confirmed that a raid earlier in the week on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur was part of the investigation. Abdul Samah did not specify what authorities found there, but said the items were being tested for traces of any chemicals.WASHINGTON (AP)  A presidential speech to Congress is one of those all-American moments that ooze ritual and decorum.The House sergeant-at-arms will stand at the rear of the House of Representatives on Tuesday night and announce the arrival of Donald Trump before a joint session of Congress by intoning: "Mister Speaker, the President of the United States" just like always.Trump will stride down the center aisle to lusty cheers and hearty handshakes from his Republican supporters. First lady Melania Trump, accompanied by special guests, will smile from the gallery above.From there, though, the president who favors disruption over decorum can take the night in any number of directions. So can the Democrats who oppose him.The White House is promising that Trump's first address to Congress will be a forward-looking one about the "renewal of the American spirit."The speech offers Trump an opportunity to stand before millions of viewers around the United States and the world, and try to reframe his presidency after a chaotic opening in which he's rattled world leaders, railed against leaked information, engaged in open warfare with the press and seen his signature effort to halt some immigration thwarted by the courts. He probably will stress early achievements such as his nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch for the Supreme Court and a series of executive orders to rein in government.Presidential counselor Kellyanne Conway told "Watters' World" on the Fox News Channel, "The Trump address won't be boring because Donald Trump's not boring."But the staid setting of the House chamber doesn't play to Trump's strengths. He captured the White House with his say-anything style at raucous campaign rallies and his red "Make America Great Again" ball cap.His inaugural address, typically a moment for optimism and gauzy possibilities, was a darkly sketched recitation of "American carnage."His speech at the Republican convention last summer offered a similarly apocalyptic pledge to save the U.S. from Hillary Clinton's record of "death, destruction, terrorism and weakness.""We've been fooled previously," says Aaron Kall, director of debate at the University of Michigan. "We keep waiting for the pivot, but it hasn't yet materialized."There also are big questions about how Democrats will choose to show their opposition to the president, especially if they are emboldened by the vocal Trump opponents who have turned out in force at legislators' town-hall meetings in their home districts over the past few weeks.Already, Democrats have made a point of inviting immigrants and foreigners to attend Trump's speech as a choreographed counterpoint to his exclusionary immigration policies.There is no shortage of bad blood between the Democrats and Trump. He has mocked their Senate leader, Chuck Schumer of New York, as the "head clown," as a "lightweight" and for crying "fake tears" on behalf of those blocked from entering the U.S.The president so far appears on friendly terms with congressional Republicans. He speaks often by phone with House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis.But GOP legislators are getting impatient for details of the president's positions on top issues such as a tax overhaul, repealing President Barack Obama's health care law and trade policy.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, asked what he wanted to hear from Trump on Tuesday, told a Chamber of Commerce crowd in Kentucky last week: "A tweet-free, optimistic and uplifting message about where America needs to go."While the traditions of Congress demand manners and cordiality, plenty of drama has unfolded over the years in the interplay between presidents and legislators during State of the Union speeches and other formal addresses, such as Tuesday's.During Obama's September 2009 address to a joint session of Congress on health care, Rep. Joe Wilson, a South Carolina Republican, blurted out "You lie!" It was seen by many as a breathtaking show of disrespect. Groups of Republicans also showed their displeasure with Obama in more subtle ways, by snickering or not applauding.Michael Waldman, chief speechwriter for President Bill Clinton, said Trump can easily "blow up a speech" with just a few deviations from the text on his teleprompter."How will he respond when several hundred Democratic members of Congress are not giving him the love he's hoping for from the audience?" Waldman asks. "There's never been anybody who's stood there before, who's responded to audiences with as much extemporaneous venom."Kall says heckling from Democrats or others in the chamber could be just the thing that energizes Trump and gives his speech extra zing.Tuesday's speech will be Trump's first visit to the Capitol since his inauguration. He visited once during the transition and testified before congressional panels a few times in his years as a businessman.He also met Republican lawmakers a number of times while he was a candidate, and in general those meetings went pretty well. Lawmakers would often remark on how different he was in person than the flame-thrower they saw on TV.WASHINGTON (AP)  President Donald Trump, who has been criticizing the news media and is famously thin-skinned, says he won't be attending the White House Correspondents' Association dinner  sparing himself the dubious honor of being an in-the-house target of jokes.The annual fundraiser for college scholarships and venue for reporting awards mixes politicians, journalists and celebrities and is typically attended by the president and first lady. Remarks by a comedian, often roasting the president, and a humorous address by the president himself, often roasting the press and political opponents, have highlighted the event, which C-SPAN has carried live.In a tweet Saturday, Trump wrote: "I will not be attending the White House Correspondents' Association Dinner this year. Please wish everyone well and have a great evening!" He gave no reason for not attending.Trump has long had an adversarial relationship with news media. Since taking office, however, he has stepped up his criticism by accusing some prominent news outlets of publishing "fake news" and calling them "the enemy of the American People!"Trump had been a regular at the WHCA dinner in recent years, befitting his celebrity status as a reality TV star and beauty pageant owner. He skipped the dinner in April 2016, which came amid the presidential campaign and was the last of the dinners in which President Barack Obama was the honored guest. That didn't mean Trump wasn't the butt of jokes. At one point Obama told guests that Trump "has spent years meeting with leaders from around the world  Miss Sweden, Miss Argentina, Miss Azerbaijan."If he attended the dinner Trump would be a prime target of jokes, the camera showing his reaction to one-liners. In 2011, he was on hand  and appeared humiliated  as Obama lobbed joke after joke at his expense. At the time Trump was a proponent of the debunked claim that Obama wasn't born in the U.S.In a statement following Trump's tweet, WHCA President Jeff Mason said: "The WHCA takes note of President Donald Trump's announcement on Twitter that he does not plan to attend the dinner, which has been and will continue to be a celebration of the First Amendment and the important role played by an independent news media in a healthy republic."This Friday, Feb. 24, 2017, photo provided by the Johnson County Sheriff\'s Office in Olathe, Kan., shows Adam Purinton, who has been charged with murder and attempted murder in the Wednesday night shooting at a crowded bar in the Kansas City suburb of Olathe. One man was killed and two were injured in the shooting. (Johnson County Sheriff\'s Office via AP)OLATHE, Kan. (AP)  A Kansas man accused of shooting two Indian immigrants and a third man at a bar, in what some believe was a hate crime, was always a drinker but became a "drunken mess" after his father died about 18 months ago, a longtime neighbor said Saturday.Andy Berthelsen said his neighbor Adam Purinton, who is charged with murder and attempted murder in Wednesday night's attack, was very close to his father, who died of pancreatic cancer.He said in the past year, Purinton bounced from one menial job to the next and was sometimes drunk by mid-morning. But in the 15 years he's lived across the street from Purinton in Olathe, Berthelsen said he's never heard him make a racist remark or talk politics. He said he doesn't believe the shooting stemmed from hatred, and that it likely resulted from Purinton's physical and mental deterioration."This is someone who's gone downhill very quickly," Berthelsen told The Associated Press by phone Saturday. "He was a drunken mess."Purinton, 51, was arrested hours after the attack at a restaurant and bar about 70 miles (110 kilometers) from Olathe in Clinton, Missouri. He is jailed on murder and attempted murder charges, and he didn't have a lawyer as of Saturday, according to court records. His first court appearance is scheduled for Monday.Purinton's mother, Marsha Purinton, told The New York Times that her son "snapped, and this is not his typical self." The newspaper said she declined to elaborate, and calls by the AP to a home listing believed to be hers got a busy signal.According to witnesses to the attack at Austins Bar and Grill, which is about a mile from Purinton's home, Purinton yelled "get out of my country" at the two Indian men before he opened fire.Srinivas Kuchibhotla, a 32-year-old engineer at GPS device-maker Garmin, was killed. His friend and colleague, 32-year-old Alok Madasani, and a man who tried to intervene, 24-year-old Ian Grillot, were wounded. Madasani was released from the hospital Thursday. Grillot remains hospitalized.Authorities on Friday declined to discuss a possible motive for the attack or to say if they were investigating it as a possible hate crime. But Madasani's father in India described it as such, and the incident has stoked fears about the treatment of immigrants, who feel targeted by President Donald Trump's promises to ban certain travelers, build a wall along the Mexico border and put "America first."The Kansas City Star, without citing its sources, reported that Purinton allegedly told a bartender at the Missouri restaurant where he was arrested that he needed a place to hide because he had just killed two Middle Eastern men.Madasani, also a Garmin engineer, told The New York Times on Friday that Purinton had been sitting near him and Kuchibhotla on the bar's patio. Madasani said he asked them what type of visas they were on and whether they were in the U.S. illegally. Both were in the country legally."We didn't react," Madasani said. "People do stupid things all the time. This guy took it to the next level."Madasani said he went to get a manager, but when he got back to the patio, the man was already being escorted out.Berthelsen said Purinton owned shotguns for bird hunting and inherited handguns from his father. He said neighbors did not feel unsafe around Purinton.While Purinton is a registered Republican, Berthelsen said he didn't ever hear him mention Trump or former President Barack Obama.Purinton is a Navy veteran and former air traffic controller, and Berthelsen, a 57-year-old contractor, said his neighbor did IT work in the past. But over the past year, Purinton worked at liquor and hardware stores and washed dishes at a pizza parlor, Berthelsen said.Austins reopened on Saturday. Many of the people who trickled in for lunch hugged staff members or other patrons. A makeshift shrine of flowers continued to build beneath a tree near the main entrance. And police in three vehicles monitored across the parking lot.One of the co-owners, Brandon Blum, said the bar has been a neighborhood fixture for 30 years and that everybody's upset by the attack. He declined to discuss it further or to say whether Purinton frequented the bar.John Teegarden, a regular who has been going to Austins for two decades, said Saturday that he didn't know the victims well but had seen them around. He said the bar staff and guests are "like one big family," and his older son even works there, though he wasn't on duty when the attack happened.UN Special Envoy for Syria Staffan de Mistura, right, attends a meeting of Intra-Syria peace talks with Syrian government delegation at Palais des Nations in Geneva, Switzerland, Saturday, Feb. 25, 2017. (Pierre Albouy/Pool Photo via AP)GENEVA (AP)  A deadly terrorist attack in central Syria on Saturday threatened to thwart efforts to wrest a political solution at peace talks in Geneva, with the U.N. mediator decrying "spoilers" who try to derail the efforts to end the country's disastrous six-year war.The government's envoy demanded a firm condemnation from all opposition groups of the synchronized attacks by insurgents on security offices in Homs that left dozens dead, while the opposition retorted that it has long denounced terrorism  even suggesting it may have been an inside job."Any party that refuses to condemn these attacks today, we will consider that party to be an accomplice of terrorism," Syria's U.N. ambassador, Bashar al-Ja'afari, told reporters after meeting U.N. envoy Staffan de Mistura in the third day of renewed peace talks  with the sides meeting separately with him so far.The talks are the first under U.N. mediation in nearly 10 months and build upon a fragile, repeatedly violated cease-fire that was wrested by Russia and Turkey. Moscow has been a powerful military and political backer of Syrian President Bashar Assad's government, and Turkey has been a supporter of key rebel groups. They also come after Syria's Russia- and Iran-backed troops regained control of the key northern city of Aleppo in December.Al-Ja'afari stopped short of suspending the government's participation outright, but said a condemnation of the attacks was a "test" for the fragmented opposition. He said his side would return to meet with the U.N. envoy again on Tuesday, and said its only condition for face-to-face talks with a "unified, patriotic opposition."An al-Qaida-linked group, known now as the Levant Liberation Committee, claimed responsibility for the twin attacks against government security offices in Homs, killing at least 32 including a senior officer of the feared Military Intelligence Services.Al-Ja'afari described the attack as a bid by states sponsoring terrorism to derail the talks. He singled out Saudi Arabia and Turkey, the two main backers of an array of opposition groups, as states lending support to terrorist groups.Syria's top opposition delegates said they condemned terrorism but not specifically the Homs attack, all but suggesting it may have been carried out by Assad's own supporters.Nasr al-Hariri, head of the main opposition negotiating team, condemnation terrorism by the so-called Islamic State group and al-Qaida's affiliates, but said the Damascus government was the primary "sponsor of terrorism.""If the Homs attack specifically was a terrorist attack carried by any of these terrorist groups, it is clear what I say," he said.Col. Faleh Hassoun, another member of the delegation, alleged that only people with security clearances could access the government's security office in Homs. He suggested it was aimed to rid the government's ranks of possible war criminals."What really happened today, we can call it liquidation by the regime of those who are wanted for international courts," he told reporters at a Geneva hotel.Hassoun also alleged that military intelligence services chief Maj. Gen Hassan Daeboul, who was killed in Saturday's attack, had been implicated in the assassination of Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in Beirut in 2005. Syria's government is widely believed to have played a role in the killing.De Mistura, in a statement from his office, said he "strongly condemns the horrific terrorist attack that took place in Homs today," calling it "an attempt to derail the current intra-Syrian talks in Geneva."Spoilers were always expected, and should continue to be expected, to try to influence the proceedings of the talks," the statement said. "It is in the interest of all parties who are against terrorism and are committed to a political process in Syria not to allow these attempts to succeed."In addition to cease-fire talks in Astana, Kazakhstan shepherded by Turkey and Russia in recent weeks, the U.N.-mediated discussions are seen as the best chance in months to put an end to Syria's nearly six-year war that has killed hundreds of thousands and displaced millions more both within Syria and abroad.FILE - In this April 15, 1975 file photo, Heavyweight boxing champion Muhammad Ali, and Little Muhammad Ali, his 2 1/2 year old son, arrive at Miami Beach, Fla. Muhammad Ali\'s son, who bears the boxing great\'s name, was detained by immigration officials at a Florida airport and questioned about his ancestry and religion in what amounted to unconstitutional profiling, a family friend said Saturday, Feb. 25, 2017. (AP Photo/File)Muhammad Ali's son, who bears the boxing great's name, was detained by immigration officials at a Florida airport and questioned about his ancestry and religion in what amounted to unconstitutional profiling, a family friend said Saturday.Returning from a Black History Month event in Jamaica, Muhammad Ali Jr. and his mother, Khalilah Camacho Ali, were pulled aside and separated from each other on Feb. 7 at the immigration checkpoint at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport, said Chris Mancini, a family friend and attorney.Camacho Ali was released a short time later after showing a photo of herself with her ex-husband, the former heavyweight boxing champion, Mancini said. But Ali Jr. was not carrying a photo of his world-famous father  a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom.Ali Jr., 44, who confirmed his Muslim faith, was detained about two hours, despite telling officials that he's Ali's son and a native-born U.S. citizen, Mancini said. It was the first time Ali Jr. and his mother have ever been asked if they're Muslim when re-entering the United States, he said."From the way they were treated, from what was said to them, they can come up with no other rational explanation except they fell into a profiling program run by customs, which is designed to obtain information from anyone who says they're a Muslim," Mancini said in a phone interview. "It's quite clear that what triggered his detention was his Arabic name and his religion."U.S. Customs and Border Protection spokesman Daniel Hetlage confirmed Saturday evening that Ali Jr. was held for questioning by customs officers, but said "it wasn't because he's a Muslim and it wasn't because of his Arabic-sounding name."The agency said in a statement that its officers process more than 1.2 million international travelers daily with "vigilance and in accordance with the law." It said it does not discriminate based on religion, race, ethnicity or sexual orientation."We treat all travelers with respect and sensitivity," the agency said. "Integrity is our cornerstone. We are guided by the highest ethical and moral principles."During his detention, Ali Jr. was asked repeatedly about his lineage and his name, "as if that was a pre-programmed question that was part of a profile," Mancini said.Ali Jr. and his mother have been frequent global travelers. The family connects their treatment to President Donald Trump's efforts to restrict immigration after calling during his campaign for a ban on Muslims entering the U.S."This has never happened to them before," Mancini said. "They're asked specifically about their Arabic names. Where they got their names from and whether they're Muslims. It doesn't take much to connect those dots to what Trump is doing."Camacho Ali and Ali Jr. live in Florida. They have not traveled abroad since, and are considering filing a federal lawsuit, he said.Asked why the matter was just now coming to light, Mancini said: "Khalilah had prior commitments as did I and when she finally got in to see me for a legal opinion of what they did, I brought it to the media immediately."Ali, the three-time heavyweight champion and humanitarian, died last June at age 74 after a long battle with Parkinson's disease. People lined the streets of Louisville, Kentucky, to say goodbye to the city's most celebrated son before a star-studded memorial service watched worldwide.FILE - In this June 14, 2016 file photo, Berkshire Hathaway Chairman and CEO Warren Buffett addresses the White House Summit on the United State of Women in Washington. Buffett is planning to release his annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders on Saturday, Feb. 25, 2017.  The letter is always one of the best-read business documents every year because of Buffett\'s knack for explaining complex issues in simple terms and because of his remarkably successful investing record. (AP Photo/Cliff Owen)OMAHA, Neb. (AP)  Billionaire investor Warren Buffett reiterated his rosy long-term outlook for the U.S. economy and his distaste for high Wall Street fees in his annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders that always draws a big audience.The letter released Saturday also describes the performance of the more than 90 companies that Berkshire owns. But aside from that, Buffett largely emphasized points he's made in the past.Buffett will likely address other topics during a three-hour television appearance Monday on CNBC, but he still may leave some people wanting more.Here are some highlights of what Berkshire's 86-year-old chairman and CEO did say, and some of the top things investors wish he had addressed:While reiterating his long-term outlook for a prosperous America, Buffett mostly steered clear of politics this year."I'll repeat what I've both said in the past and expect to say in future years: Babies born in America today are the luckiest crop in history," wrote Buffett, who has said he thinks the economy will be OK under President Donald Trump. Buffett is a longtime Democrat who supported Hillary Clinton in last year's campaign.Without mentioning Trump's immigration policies, Buffett did note that "a tide of talented and ambitious immigrants" played a significant role in the country's prosperity.Buffett used the letter to again explain the advantages of low-cost index funds. He said he estimates that wealthy investors who use high-priced advisers have wasted more than $100 billion over the past decade."The bottom line: When trillions of dollars are managed by Wall Streeters charging high fees, it will usually be the managers who reap outsized profits, not the clients," Buffett wrote. "Both large and small investors should stick with low-cost index funds."And it can be extremely difficult for investors to determine whether a money manager has the rare ability to outperform the stock market. So Buffett said most investors are better off not trying."The problem simply is that the great majority of managers who attempt to over-perform will fail. The probability is also very high that the person soliciting your funds will not be the exception who does well," Buffett wrote.Investment manager Cole Smead said he felt that Buffett spent too much of the letter extolling Berkshire's virtues instead of talking about how he'll approach investing the company's $86 billion cash or what went wrong with the failed $143 billion bid for Unilever that Berkshire took part in with 3G Capital.Smead said Buffett and his investing partner, 93-year-old Charlie Munger, seem concerned about their legacies and how Berkshire is perceived."This letter was more about Warren and Charlie's epitaph even more so than prior letters," said Smead, who is with Seattle-based Smead Capital Management.Smead said he wishes Buffett had devoted more of the letter to discussing the current investment environment. Even though Buffett won't discuss what he might buy, Smead said he could have talked more about what he doesn't like in the market today.Buffett raised eyebrows last fall when he invested more than $9 billion in airline stocks after years of urging investors to stay away from the airline sector.Berkshire is now one of the biggest shareholders in American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, United Continental and Southwest, but he has offered little explanation for his change of heart other than to say airlines are better businesses after all the consolidation in the industry.But back in 2008, Buffett used his letter to label airlines as the worst kind of business because they grow rapidly and require significant investments to grow but earn little."Think airlines. Here a durable competitive advantage has proven elusive ever since the days of the Wright Brothers," Buffett wrote. "Indeed, if a farsighted capitalist had been present at Kitty Hawk, he would have done his successors a huge favor by shooting Orville down."NEW YORK (AP)  A trans-Atlantic wave of puzzlement is rippling across Sweden for the second time in a week, after a prominent Fox News program featured a "Swedish defense and national security advisor" who's unknown to the country's military and foreign-affairs officials.Swedes, and some Americans, have been wondering about representations of the Nordic nation in the U.S. since President Donald Trump invoked "what's happening last night in Sweden" while alluding to past terror attacks in Europe during a rally Feb. 18. There hadn't been any major incident in Sweden the previous night.Then, Fox News commentator Bill O'Reilly convened an on-air faceoff Thursday over Swedish immigration and crime between a Swedish newspaper reporter and a man identified on screen and verbally as a "Swedish defense and national security advisor," Nils Bildt.Bildt linked immigration to social problems in Sweden, lamented what he described as Swedish liberal close-mindedness about the downsides of welcoming newcomers and said: "We are unable in Sweden to socially integrate these people," arguing that politicians lacked a systematic plan to do so.But if viewers might have taken the "advisor" for a government insider, the Swedish Defense Ministry and Foreign Office told the newspaper Dagens Nyheter they knew nothing of him. Calls to Swedish officials Saturday weren't immediately returned.Bildt is a founding member of a corporate geopolitical strategy and security consulting business with offices in Washington, Brussels and Tokyo, according its website. His bio speaks to expertise on defense and national security issues, saying his experience includes serving as a naval officer, working for a Japanese official and writing books on issues ranging from investment and political climates to security issues in working in hostile environments."He is in not in any way a known quantity in Sweden and has never been part of the Swedish debate," Swedish Defence University leadership professor Robert Egnell said by email to The Associated Press on Saturday. He and Bildt  also known then as Nils Tolling  were in a master's degree program in war studies together at King's College London in 2002-2003, and Bildt moved to Japan soon after, he said.The executive producer of "The O'Reilly Factor" said Bildt was recommended by people the show's booker consulted while making numerous inquiries about potential guests."After pre-interviewing him and reviewing his bio, we agreed that he would make a good guest for the topic that evening," executive producer David Tabacoff said in a statement.Bildt didn't respond Saturday to email inquiries; a person who answered the phone at his company agreed to relay one. He told Dagens Nyheter on Friday that he was a U.S.-based independent analyst, and Fox News had chosen its description of him."Sorry for any confusion caused, but needless to say I think that is not really the issue. The issue is Swedish refusal to discuss their social problems and issues," he added in a statement to the news website Mediaite, explaining his profession as being an independent political adviser.Trump's initial remark about "last night in Sweden" stirred a burst of social media mockery, while Trump explained on Twitter that he was referring to a Fox News piece on immigration and Sweden that he'd seen the night before.Trump and his supporters, though, saw vindication when a riot broke out Monday after police arrested a drug suspect in a predominantly immigrant suburb of Stockholm. Cars were set on fire and shops looted, but no one was injured.Trump took to Twitter again Monday to declare that large-scale immigration in Sweden was "NOT!" working out well, upsetting many Swedes.Associated Press writers Jan Olsen in Copenhagen and Mesfin Fedaku in New York contributed to this report.