bbc-sport
The American coach of Olympic champion Mo Farah may have broken anti-doping rules to boost the performance of some of his athletes, says a leaked report.Alberto Salazar has been under investigation since a BBC Panorama programme made allegations about drugs use at his US training base.The leaked report also alleges Salazar, head coach of the world famous endurance Nike Oregon Project (NOP), routinely gave Farah and other athletes legal prescription drugs with potentially harmful side-effects without a justifiable medical reason. The investigation into Salazar, who is also a consultant to UK Athletics (UKA), has been under way since at least June 2015.The Usada interim report was passed to the Sunday Times by the suspected Russian hacking group Fancy Bears. The BBC has so far been unable to verify its authenticity with Usada, or establish whether any of its reported conclusions are out of date.In a statement, Usada said it could "confirm that it has prepared a report in response to a subpoena from a state medical licensing body regarding care given by a physician to athletes associated with the Nike Oregon Project".It said: "We understand that the licensing body is still deciding its case and as we continue to investigate whether anti-doping rules were broken, no further comment will be made at this time."Importantly, all athletes, coaches and others under the jurisdiction of the World Anti-Doping Code are innocent and presumed to have complied with the rules unless and until the established anti-doping process declares otherwise. It is unfair and reckless to state, infer or imply differently."Salazar maintains that drug use has always fully complied with the Wada code and that athletes were administered with L-carnitine in "exactly the way Usada directed".The report, apparently written in March 2016, allegedly states: "Usada continues to investigate circumstances related to L-carnitine use" by Farah.Farah, who has won 5,000m and 10,000m gold at the past two Olympic Games, told The Sunday Times two years ago that he had "tried a legal energy drink" containing L-carnitine but "saw no benefit" and did not continue with it.The revelations will pile more pressure on Britain's greatest ever endurance runner, who has steadfastly refused to end his association with Salazar.  to continue working with Salazar after an inquiry was launched following the BBC Panorama programme.  In June 2015, in conjunction with the US website ProPublica, the BBC's Panorama programme Catch Me If You Can made a series of allegations about the methods at NOP, and included testimony from a number of former athletes and coaches, including Kara Goucher and Steve Magness. The film alleged Salazar had a fixation on the testosterone levels of his athletes, and may have doped American Olympic medallist Galen Rupp with the banned steroid version when he was 16. The programme also alleged Salazar had conducted testosterone experiments on his sons to see how much of the drug he could apply to them before it triggered positive tests.  The film also alleged Salazar used thyroid medicine inappropriately with his athletes, and encouraged the use of prescription medication when there was no justifiable need.Usada took the unusual step of confirming it had launched an investigation into NOP following the BBC and ProPublica's revelations in 2015. Earlier stories by the New York Times and the Sunday Times had also raised concerns about some of Salazar's methods. Leicester striker Jamie Vardy says speculation that he was involved in manager Claudio Ranieri's dismissal is "untrue and extremely hurtful".Caretaker manager Craig Shakespeare previously denied a player revolt had led to Ranieri's dismissal."There is speculation I was involved in his dismissal and this is completely untrue, unfounded and is extremely hurtful.The only thing we are guilty of as a team is underachieving, which we all acknowledge both in the dressing room and publicly, and will do our best to rectify."Vardy scored 24 goals as the Foxes secured an unlikely Premier League title in 2015-16, but the striker has struggled this season.He ended a nine-game goal drought during Leicester's 2-1 Champions League loss at Sevilla, which proved to be Ranieri's last match in charge."He believed in me when many didn't and for that I owe him my eternal gratitude," former Fleetwood striker Vardy wrote."I wish Claudio the very, very best in whatever the future holds for him. Thank you Claudio for everything."Former England captain Alan Shearer said: "I didn't need the sacking of Ranieri to tell me the players weren't working for him. I could see it. I've been saying it for the last two or three months, that the players just weren't working for him."I would say to the Leicester players, if you look in the mirror and ask yourself a question - have I worked as hard as I could and given the manager everything? I would pretty much say, for the vast majority of that Leicester squad, the answer would be no. They could do more, I'm certain of that."Fans will get over it, I'm sure. We saw what happened with Chelsea when Diego Costa and Cesc Fabregas were booed after half an hour and then Chelsea go and score goals and get back to winning ways. Fans soon forget. However, you will never ever forget what happened last season. That was the best thing that has happened and will ever happen, in the Premier League, a team achieving what like Leicester did."Former Tottenham midfielder Jermaine Jenas said: "The timing is ludicrous. They've just gone to Seville and in the second half they were back to their best defensively. Give Claudio Ranieri the chance to keep them in the Premier League."BBC Sport understands some players were summoned to meet the chairman after the 2-1 loss to Sevilla and Ranieri's fate was sealed by the negative reaction.However goalkeeper Kasper Schmeichel said he had "no problem with Ranieri" while several players, including "Big respect to this great man who helped us achieve history, you helped me build myself as a player and gave me the courage I needed," forward Riyad Mahrez "My Leicester career was over, he believed in me and gave me a chance. That's something else I will also never forget," defender "I wish him luck for the future and I had the opportunity to say this today, however we really need the true Leicester fans to be with us and not against us through this tough period, starting on Monday night. Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our newsletter and learn where to find us on online.Enjoy the best debate, analysis and interviews with 5 live and World Service football plus our commentary listings.How to get into football - the most popular sport in the world, with clubs and facilities throughout the UK.Vern Cotter hailed his Scotland side's second-half display, in which a haul of 20 unanswered points secured a first victory over Wales since 2007."We realised we were watching them play rather than playing ourselves," Cotter said after Scotland's second win of the championship."We were more assertive and organised in the second half. We applied pressure and got over the line with well-scored tries."It means we're still in the competition and we can get back to work on Monday and prepare for Twickenham."John Barclay, captaining Scotland from the back row, became only the fourth of 14 Scotland skippers in the Six Nations era to have tasted victory in his first game leading the team.He told BBC Sport: "We won very well against Ireland (in round one), then we didn't play particularly well (against France). We wanted to get out of that cycle of having a good win, then not backing it up."The second half, to go out there, no panicking and play with control and accuracy - we recovered from a poor first half to go on and beat a very good Welsh side."We believe within the group that we can do something. We go to England for the next game. We'll have a look at them. If we play well, we can win."If we play like we did in Paris, if we play like we did in the first half (against Wales), then it becomes very difficult."England can re-take top spot in the Six Nations table from Ireland with victory over Italy on Sunday.New Zealander Cotter has only two games remaining as Scotland head coach - the penultimate being the Calcutta Cup match - before he makes way for Gregor Townsend."Real guts and desire, the boys threw their bodies into it," was Cotter's assessment of his team's battling performance."We will enjoy the evening, it's been a few years since we beat Wales. The boys can have a couple of quiet, cold beers. Then we go down to England."I think these experiences for the young players are great. John (Barclay) did a great job out there and steadied the ship."How to get into rugby union - into the thick of the 15-player game or try rugby sevens, which made its Olympic debut in 2016.Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our newsletter and learn where to find us on online.Enjoy the best debate, analysis and interviews with BBC 5 live and World Service plus our rugby union commentary listings.This week's sport on the BBC includes the Six Nations, Super League, skeleton and boxing, plus the Premier League and EFL Cup.Chelsea stretched their lead at the top of the Premier League table to 11 points after victory over battling Swansea City at Stamford Bridge.Cesc Fabregas marked his 300th Premier League appearance by firing the Blues ahead, poking the ball through the legs of Jack Cork and into the net.The hosts were stunned when Swansea equalised from their first serious attempt on target on the stroke of half-time - Fernando Llorente heading in Gylfi Sigurdsson's free-kick.Fabregas hit the bar before Pedro's curling effort restored the lead and Diego Costa netted the third from close range.This was far from straightforward for Antonio Conte's side and had referee Neil Swarbrick awarded Swansea a penalty shortly before Pedro made it 2-1 then the outcome might have been different.However, in the end Chelsea's sweeping forward play earned them a 10th straight home Premier League win as they took another significant step towards a second title in three seasons. of the season - the EFL Cup - is handed out at Wembley, the Blues look unstoppable. They have 63 points from 26 games - three more than at the same stage in 2014-15 when last crowned champions of England.The Spain midfielder had a goal-bound shot deflected behind shortly before he opened the scoring, was denied by former Arsenal team-mate Lukasz Fabianski and also rattled the bar.While it required an error from Fabianski to restore the lead, Eden Hazard's exquisite timing and pass for Costa to make it 3-1 was a delight.Chelsea were forced to work hard for three points thanks to a well organised and energetic Swansea side and the Swans looked a shadow of the team that was bottom of the Premier League table five weeks ago.Their four-point safety cushion at the start of the day is down to three, but boss Paul Clement will have been pleased with the way his side frustrated the runaway leaders for long spells.Swansea's next four games - Burnley (home), Hull City (away), Bournemouth (away) and Middlesbrough (home) - give them a chance to stay clear of the bottom three before they entertain Tottenham on 4 April. "We played very well, it was a good performance, and we created many chances to score. We conceded at the end of the first half, after the time was finished, so in this case there was a bit of luck, but we showed great character in the second half. "Any game we play and don't win we are disappointed. Chelsea are a very good side, they have fantastic quality and that was the difference. We didn't have a lot of chances but we came in at 1-1 for half-time and for long periods we defended really well."There was a big moment with the handball, I thought Cesar Azpilicueta handled it at 1-1, it's a clear handball. That gives you a chance to go 2-1 up but three minutes later you're 2-1 down with a soft goal. Based on chances they deserved to win, but there was  big moment that didn't go our way, and who knows what might have happened.""I don't think Swansea should have had a penalty as the distance from Gylfi Sigurdsson to Cesar Azpilicueta is too close and Azpilicueta's arm is already out. His hand is there because he's trying to stop Sigurdsson's run." "I think it was a penalty. I think it was a deliberate movement of his hand towards the ball and I think Chelsea got away with one there. It could have been very different if the ref had given it."We've seen in recent weeks with Swansea that they made it very difficult for Liverpool at Anfield, they were unlucky to lose at Manchester City. They are very organised. The difference between Liverpool and City with this Chelsea side is the pace with which they go forward. That's why Cesc Fabregas was in the team today. He was brilliant. He's the one that started the goal off."It's topical that players are not working for mangers. The irony is last season we were sat here with a large bunch of these same Chelsea players - they weren't working for their manager and we know what happened. It's such a transformation now. We saw how brilliant they were with the ball but look at them now without it. The transformation from then to now is incredible."Chelsea have nine days to prepare for their next game away to West Ham United on Monday, 6 March (20:00 GMT). Swansea entertain Burnley on Saturday, 4 March (15:00 GMT).Attempt missed. Cesc Fbregas (Chelsea) right footed shot from outside the box is too high. Assisted by Willian.Goal!  Chelsea 3, Swansea City 1. Diego Costa (Chelsea) left footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Eden Hazard.Attempt missed. N'Golo Kant (Chelsea) right footed shot from the centre of the box is too high. Assisted by Nemanja Matic.Attempt saved. Gylfi Sigurdsson (Swansea City) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.Goal!  Chelsea 2, Swansea City 1. Pedro (Chelsea) left footed shot from outside the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Cesc Fbregas.Attempt blocked. N'Golo Kant (Chelsea) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Gary Cahill.Attempt blocked. Diego Costa (Chelsea) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Cesc Fbregas.Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our newsletter and learn where to find us on online.Enjoy the best debate, analysis and interviews with 5 live and World Service football plus our commentary listings.How to get into football - the most popular sport in the world, with clubs and facilities throughout the UK.They were penalised at the ensuing line-out as Scotland recorded their first win over Wales since 2007."The kickers didn't want to so we just went for the corner," said 107-times capped Jones, who added he "would have liked to" have taken the points."And I got done for blocking at the back of the lift then, but, yeah, I would have liked to have gone for the three (points)."The incident was more remarkable as Irish referee John Lacey could be heard saying a kick at goal had been indicated while Wales fly-half Dan Biggar could be heard asking Jones if he could kick for the corner.The penalty was awarded on the Scotland 22-metre line close to the touchline, so would normally be considered well within the range of place kickers Leigh Halfpenny, who kicked eight points, and Biggar.Wales led 13-9 at half-time, but failed to add to their tally after the break as Scotland scored 20 unanswered points.Jones felt the momentum shift started before the interval when Halfpenny missed a chance to give Wales a 10-point lead and man of the match Finn Russell cut the gap to four points with the last kick of the half."At the tail end of the first half they took an opportunity and then into the second half, but we coughed up possession a little too easily," he said.Jones said he wanted Wales to improve their discipline for their next game against Ireland on Friday, 10 March in Cardiff."We gave away one or two soft penalties and Scotland did a good job of disrupting us at the breakdown in the second half," he added.How to get into rugby union - into the thick of the 15-player game or try rugby sevens, which made its Olympic debut in 2016.Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our newsletter and learn where to find us on online.Enjoy the best debate, analysis and interviews with BBC 5 live and World Service plus our rugby union commentary listings.This week's sport on the BBC includes the Six Nations, Super League, skeleton and boxing, plus the Premier League and EFL Cup.Gavin McDonnell's dream of joining twin brother Jamie as a world champion was shattered as classy Mexican Rey Vargas scored a points decision to land the vacant WBC super-bantamweight title.The 30-year-old produced a display of immense grit - landing telling blows in the ninth round - but his 26-year-old opponent's confident work throughout saw him gain a 114-114 117-111 116-112 decision.Victory would have delivered Britain's first simultaneous twin world champions, with Jamie McDonnell already in possession of the WBA bantamweight belt.But Vargas - unbeaten in 29 bouts - was rewarded for his control of the early exchanges and left the noisy Ice Arena in Hull with his first world title.Vargas, with Iganacio Beristain - who has trained Oscar de la Hoya and Juan Manuel Marquez to world titles - in his corner, took the middle of the ring early and confidently landed three-shot combinations with McDonnell visibly cautious against a man with 22 previous knockouts.In the build-up to the fight, McDonnell's promoter Eddie Hearn said he pushed for the bout to take place at the "down and dirty" Hull Ice Arena in the hope the "bear-pit" atmosphere could do "strange things" to the travelling fighter.There were moments of home hope, as McDonnell landed a stinging right in the 10th but in just his third fight outside Mexico, Vargas even had the temerity to smile back at his man after taking some punishment late on.The younger man's confidence to switch from making the fight to boxing on the back foot near the ropes perhaps showed he knew he had built a good early lead. McDonnell's head movement was energetic throughout, while his opponent was happy to remain static at times as he waited to pick his attacks.Now 19 fights into his career, McDonnell can take great pride from the heart he showed and none of the 3,500 in the venue appeared to feel short-changed by his efforts.In truth, he simply came up against a fighter who carried plenty of power in his 8st 10lb frame, and showed variation and a cool head to handle the occasion.At the final bell, Vargas threw his hands into the air before slumping to the ropes and looking to the heavens. McDonnell in contrast seemed to know hopes of family history were over, for now. maintained his momentum as he seeks a world title shot in 2017 - "the biggest year of my career", according to the Hull fighter. The 29-year-old lightweight recorded his fourth straight win following a shock defeat in 2015 to Yvan Mendy, with a series of crushing left hands to Jairo Lopez. The Mexican, down in the first, somehow made the second round but was flattened by a left uppercut. Campbell, who began training in Miami after the Mendy defeat, showed his typically energetic style and now has hopes of a shot at WBC champion Mikey Garcia.Another Hull fighter, Tommy Coyle - beaten by Campbell in 2015 - kept his hopes of a return to world level alive with a third-round stoppage of Rakeem Noble. talking to BBC Radio 5 live, said: "I will learn, I know where I went wrong, I am disappointed, but I will work so hard."I had him winning by a couple of rounds, probably three rounds in my opinion. Everyone is in with a puncher's chance - if I can improve my speed and power I will land and I can beat that kid.In an interview with Sky Sports, he added: "I gave it everything and I hope everyone enjoyed it. I feel like I let everyone down."I just fell short at the end. I felt all right in there, I was a bit too eager and I couldn't get close enough. I will come again - I have only had 18 fights and I want to show I belong at this level. told BBC Radio 5 live: "I think Gavin started too slowly and he was always chasing it. Vargas was very good - he had excellent feet and confidence."To put in a performance like that, Gavin should be very proud but ultimately he was not good enough. I think Rey Vargas will go on to do a lot in the sport."Gavin has improved so much but he was not letting his hands go and that was the frustrating thing. It was a little bit of inexperience. If he did what he did in the ninth from the fifth round onwards then he would've had a chance."How to get into boxing - intense cardiovascular exercise from sparring in one of the Olympics' oldest sports.Ireland kept their hopes of a third Six Nations title in four years alive by recovering from an early deficit to beat France in a bruising encounter. Two Camille Lopez penalties put France 6-0 up but Conor Murray's converted try edged Ireland into a one-point lead.Johnny Sexton added two penalties and a drop goal in a keenly contested second half, with Lopez and replacement Paddy Jackson trading late penalties.Ireland move a point ahead of Scotland at the top of the table, with England's game at home to Italy to come on Sunday.Joe Schmidt's men, beaten in their first match in Scotland, have 10 points from their three matches and now face Wales away and England at home.France left the Aviva Stadium empty-handed to remain on five points and they next host Italy before a final-day trip to Cardiff.Ireland remain unbeaten at home in the Six Nations during the tenure of coach Schmidt, a run stretching back to 2014, and they will go into their next game in Cardiff on 10 March with confidence. France displayed glimpses of the much-heralded revival under their coach Guy Noves but showed signs of tiredness throughout the second half and their hopes of a first championship success since 2010 are now surely over.Only once in the past 10 Six Nations meetings between these sides had the winning margin reached double digits, so Ireland will be happy to come away with a hard-fought win and deny their opponents a losing bonus point. France began in intense fashion as they sought to carry through the momentum gained from their narrow defeat by England and morale-boosting success over Scotland. Their enterprising start was epitomised by an outrageous dummy by scrum-half Baptiste Serin, which almost yielded a try, while centre Remi Lamerat was only denied a score by a knock-on by his midfield partner Gael Fickou after Lopez's audacious cross-field kick had set up the chance.In the event, the visitors only had two Lopez penalties to show for their early dominance and it was Ireland who assumed control for the remainder of the half.The hosts were rewarded for their superiority in territory and possession when Robbie Henshaw made ground after a five-metre scrum and passed to man-of-the-match Murray, who dived over from close range for the only try of the game.Ireland should have gone in at half-time further ahead, but turned down a couple of kickable penalties in favour of kicking for the corner, while the French defended stoutly to keep their half-time arrears to a single point.France looked a more confident, settled and better prepared side for periods in the first half, but despite their squad having enjoyed an accustomed break from Top 14 action last weekend, they were already showing signs of fatigue by the interval. It was Ireland who showed the greater purpose and spirit after the break, with fly-half Sexton defying the fact that he had been out of action through injury for the past five weeks by pulling the strings and piling on the points.In the first half, the Leinster man converted Murray's try and almost created a try for himself when he kicked towards the corner after a fine Ireland wraparound move along the backs, only for wing Noa Nakaitaci to ground the ball first.The number 10's early second-half penalty was followed by an exquisite drop-goal, which brought the home supporters to their feet and the Aviva Stadium to life.A further penalty extended Ireland's advantage in a breathless second half and although the French put up some resistance, the hosts showed the greater resilience and, with the Ireland pack largely in control, the outcome never looked in doubt.After Sexton was withdrawn to a rapturous reception, Lopez pulled France back to bonus-point range with his third penalty, but Jackson's kick with four minutes remaining ensured the Noves' side went home empty-handed and broken-hearted. Kearney, Earls, Ringrose, Henshaw, Zebo, Sexton, Murray, McGrath, Best, Furlong, D. Ryan, Toner, Stander, O'Brien, Heaslip.: Trimble for Kearney (51), Jackson for Sexton (69), Marmion for Murray (79), C. Healy for McGrath (60), Scannell for Best (68), J. Ryan for Furlong (74), Henderson for D. Ryan (60), O'Mahony for O'Brien (68). Spedding, Huget, Lamerat, Fickou, Nakaitaci, Lopez, Serin, Baille, Guirado, Slimani, Vahaamahina, Maestri, Le Roux, Gourdon, Picamoles.: Camara for Spedding (74), Chavancy for Lamerat (60), Machenaud for Serin (62), Ben Arous for Baille (51), Tolofua for Guirado (62), Atonio for Slimani (51), Le Devedec for Vahaamahina (51), Ollivon for Le Roux (60).Zlatan Ibrahimovic has been Manchester United's player of the season so far, and his goals and sheer presence make him the man they would miss the most right now.He is 35 and cannot go on forever but United would be crazy not to try to keep the Swedish striker for another season because he has shown he still has such a lot to offer.As well as his 24 goals in 37 games for United, a big part of Ibrahimovic's impact is the effect he has had on his team-mates.His influence has been compared with that of Old Trafford legend Eric Cantona - and I can understand why.We know Ibrahimovic has got fantastic individual ability, but his charisma and the way he carries himself has seen him become the team's talisman.It must be brilliant for United's young players - like Marcus Rashford, Anthony Martial and Jesse Lingard - to be around someone with Ibrahimovic's appetite, energy and desire.They can learn some things from him on the pitch during games, of course, but working with him every day and seeing his attitude in training and the dressing room will be invaluable experience for them.That is another reason for United to keep him, although even if he does stay I am pretty certain they will still go for a big-hitter in the summer to either play with him up front, or compete for his place.Ibrahimovic's mentality has not changed despite everything he has done in his career - he is still determined to be the best.He has played in the vast majority of United's games this season, which for someone his age is a superb achievement - in all competitions, Leicester's Wes Morgan is the only Premier League player to play more minutes.His languid style means it does not always look as if he is doing a lot of running during games, but he typically covers 9km every 90 minutes - the same distance per match as a striker as hard-working as Arsenal's Alexis Sanchez, for example.However, both of those statistics would be overlooked if he was not scoring goals too. They are the really impressive thing and set him apart from other 35-year-old footballers.They have made a big difference for United too. His goal against Blackburn in the FA Cup on Sunday was his ninth winner in all competitions this season.Altogether his goals have earned United 11 points in the Premier League alone - a joint league high for 2016-17 with Chelsea's Diego Costa.I played in the Premier League until I was almost 36 and to compete at that age you need to have a hunger in training, not just want to keep playing more games.On a day-to-day basis you have to keep pushing yourself. Your body is taking more and more punishment and it becomes harder and harder to get through it.You need to have huge willpower, but you also need a manager who understands what you need - when you need a rest, and when you do and don't need to train.Ibrahimovic has that in Jose Mourinho, which is great, but he still has to go out and do the business on the pitch.Mourinho has helped him there too because he knows he has a player who needs feeding, and their style of play does precisely that.The key for United is getting the ball up to Ibrahimovic, then getting players around him and running beyond him to deliver it into the box.They were not quite managing it earlier in the season but now they have found a way of making it work that suits Ibrahimovic and, more importantly, the team.If you give Ibrahimovic chances, the rest is up to him. United have been doing the first bit - he has had more shots at goal this season than any other Premier League player.Ibrahimovic has already been a winner at Wembley this season, when his goal against Leicester clinched the Community Shield.On Sunday he will get the chance to get his hands on more silverware when his side play Southampton in the EFL Cup final (16:30 GMT kick-off), but United will not be taking success for granted.Not many people gave Southampton a chance over two legs against Liverpool in the semi-finals and I think they have enough going forward to cause United problems.It will be a blow for United if Henrikh Mkhitaryan and Michael Carrick miss the game through injury, as Mourinho fears, but United will still rightly go into the game as favourites.Ibrahimovic's form obviously marks him out as their danger man, and he has already scored twice against Saints this season when he got off the mark at Old Trafford with both goals in a United win in August.So Southampton will know how big a threat he is when the ball comes into their box - what might decide the game is whether they can stop him this time.Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our newsletter and learn where to find us on online.Enjoy the best debate, analysis and interviews with 5 live and World Service football plus our commentary listings.How to get into football - the most popular sport in the world, with clubs and facilities throughout the UK.Captain Eoin Morgan top-scored with 95 as England warmed up for their three-match one-day series in the West Indies with a 117-run win over a Vice Chancellor's XI.Jason Roy was particularly destructive as he hammered a 43-ball 79, while Joe Root made 71 and Ben Stokes 61.That was despite the best efforts of opener Chadwick Walton, who smashed 121 off 109 balls before he was the eighth man out, lbw to new Test skipper Root.BBC Test Match Special returns with live commentary on every ball of England's one-day international series against West Indies in March.Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our newsletter and learn where to find us on online.How to get into cricket - physical exertion with a chess-like element in matches which range from half an hour to five days.England's Tyrrell Hatton is four shots behind leader Rickie Fowler going into the final round of the Honda Classic.The 25-year-old world number 18 is on nine under after a four-under round of 66, while Fowler made two birdies in the last three holes in a 65 for a 13-under total in Florida.It is the third straight week that someone has built a big lead on the PGA Tour after 54 holes. Jordan Spieth was six shots clear at Pebble Beach, while Dustin Johnson was up by five shots at Riviera, both going on to win.From hitting a few balls on the range or a quick nine holes, to the full 18 and tournaments - how to get into golf.This week's sport on the BBC includes the Six Nations, Super League, skeleton and boxing, plus the Premier League and EFL Cup.