business-insider-uk

  There's agreat part at the beginning of the movie "Raiders
  of the Lost Ark," where, in a moment of triumph, the villainous
  Belloq gloats to Indiana Jones that "
  And that's beyond the broader moves Amazon has made in the last
  year or so, including, but not limited to,, especially, Amazon makes it easier to buy
  physical and digital goods, to the point where you'd never even
  think to look elsewhere. From there, the company can sell at
  razor-thin margins, because once you're hooked, you'll buy at
  volume.

  And in the same way that Facebook has shown that it's willing to
  just straight-up copy competitors like Snapchat if it serves its
  ends, Amazon has made it clear that nothing is off limits. While
  a to offer student loans
  through Amazon ended after only six weeks, it shows that the
  retail giant is willing to sell, a surprise hit that left Google, Apple, and
  Microsoft scrambling to catch up. Meanwhile, every Alexa-powered
  device sold is another happy Amazon customer, 
  So to boil it down, Amazon will sell anything, to anyone, at a
  cheaper price than anybody else can afford and isn't
  afraid to burn money in search of new markets.
, it's possible that the tweaks to
  affiliate revenue are a sign that Amazon got what it wanted from
  websites that promote its electronics, and is now dialing the
  revenue back to drive more traffic back to its site
  directly.

  That's long been the Amazon way, and this week gave us a clear
  sign that Jeff Bezos' so-called "Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his
personal investment company Bezos Expeditions.
  The Indonesian woman who is one of the suspects arrested over the
  killing of the half-brother of North Korea's leader, has
  reportedly told authorities she was paid 400 Malaysian riggits
  ($90) to carry out what she believed was a prank, 
  Kim Jong-Nam died on February 13 after he appeared to be attacked
  by two women in a Kuala Lumpur Airport. Malaysian officials said
  test showed he had been poisonedusing VX, 
  Indonesian embassy officials say Siti Aisyah  a 25-year-old
  female Indonesian spa masseuse said she was paid to smear
  Kim Jong-Nam's face with "baby oil" as part of a reality show
  prank.

  According to The BBC, Andreano Erwin, the Indonesian deputy
  ambassador who met with Aisyah on Saturday, said: "She only said
  in general that somebody asked her to do this activity. She only
  said in general she met with some people who looked Japanese or
  Korean. According to her, that person gave her 400 ringgits to do
  this activity... She only said she was given a kind of oil, like
  baby oil."

  Kim Jong-Nam is the eldest son of Kim Jong-Il and was once the
  favourite to assume the North Korean leadership. However, he
  reportedly fell out of favour with his father when he failed in
  an attempt to enter Japan on a fake passport in 2001. He
  livedin exile ever since and his been publicly critical of
  his family's North Korean leadership regime. His half-brother Kim
  Jong-Un was declared Supreme Leader of North Korea in 2011.

  And in the most recent annual letter to shareholders from
  Berkshire Hathaway, the billionaire investor once again touches
  on that theme a couple of times.
 and I have no magic plan to add earnings except to
  dream big and to be prepared mentally and financially to act fast
  when opportunities present themselves," he writes in a section
  detailing what Berkshire Hathaway hopes to accomplish going
  forward.

  "Every decade or so, dark clouds will fill the economic skies,
  and they will briefly rain gold. When downpours of that sort
  occur, its imperative that we rush outdoors carrying washtubs,
  not teaspoons. And that we will do."

  Later in the letter, he details that line of thinking in broader
  terms, relative to the broader American economy.

  "American business  and consequently a basket of stocks  is
  virtually certain to be worth far more in the years ahead.
  Innovation, productivity gains, entrepreneurial spirit and an
  abundance of capital will see to that. [... Nevertheless]
  manycompanies, of course, will fall behind, and some will
  fail. Winnowing of that sort is a product of market dynamism.
  Moreover, the years ahead will occasionally deliver major market
  declines  even panics  that will affect virtually all stocks.
  No one can tell you when these traumas will occur  not me, not
  Charlie, not economists, not the media. [...]
.
  Second, personal fear is your enemy. It will also be unwarranted.
  Investors who avoid high and unnecessary costs and simply sit for
  an extended period with a collection of large,
  conservatively-financed American businesses will almost certainly
  do well."

  For what it's worth, Buffett is not the only person who has
  articulatedthis line of thinking over the course of
  history.

  If you're in your twenties, and you sell your company for more
  than $200 million, what do you do to celebrate?

  For the three cofounders of Bleacher Report, the answer was a
  trip to Las Vegas. But they didn't just buy their own way. They
  also paid for all of their 160 employees to jointhem
  inVegas.

  Bleacher Report cofounder Bryan Goldberg revealed a lot of
  business tips and tricks. But he also discussed how the Las Vegas
  trip happened. His team had just sold Bleacher Reportto
  Turner Media for about $200 million, and Turner hadn't fully
  "wrapped its arms" around Bleacher Reportyet, so there was
  a short window of opportunity to plan an epic trip.

  Goldberg wouldn't reveal many details, except to say that they
  all managed to come back alive. He says he won't be doing that
  again if his new startup, Bustle, gets acquired, because he is
  now "old, stodgy Bryan" and it "isn't the right thing to do."
 We did. The founders paid for it. We
  had sold the company. We had made money, and we said, "Let's each
  chip in like X-thousand dollars and fly the company to Vegas."
 At that point it was like 160 people,
  170 people. The CEO, Brian Grey, very wisely didn't go. I think
  one of the fun things about having a CEO when you're in your 20s
  running a company is he can be the grown-up and he can look the
  other way. He was like, "I'm not going anywhere near this. You
  pay for it out of pocket. You do it on the weekend. This is not a
  Bleacher Report event."

  It was so early after the sale that I think Turner hadn't really
  put their arms around us, so we had this very narrow window for
  the founders to pay out of pocket to do a noncompany event on the
  weekend to go to Vegas.

  As we know, what happens in Vegas stays in Vegas, but I would say
  that on a scale of 1 to 10  like, OMFG  it's probably a 10. I
  don't know what an 11 would look like. I'm not going into it,
  except to say we all came back alive.
 You want to know what a 10 looks like?
  It looks like all the things you think about in a rock-star
  moment. It helped build the team. It was not forgotten, and that
  sort of behavior never again happened, and will never happen
  again.
 If we sell Bustle, and I hate to say
  it  and my team at Bustle is going to hear this podcast and say,
  "Well, wait a minute. Bleacher Report got to do a Vegas trip 
  why don't we?"  and I'm going to say, "You know what, because I
  was young then and I'm old now, and old, boring, stodgy Bryan in
  his mid-30s is not going to do a trip to Vegas because it's just
  not the right thing to do."

  I'm beet red right now  thank God this is a podcast. Because you
  just can't do those sorts of things. Not in the year 2017, 2018,
  2019, whatever it turns out to be.

  Britain's economy is being stalked by "troubling omens" and the
  consumer spending boom that has fuelled recent growth could well
  be close to an end, according to new research from Oxford
  Economics.

  Writing in Oxford's weekly briefing for the UK, economist Martin
  Beck argues that despite the strong headline figures in recent
  economic data, there are some signs that the impact of the vote
  for Brexit may finally be starting to filter into the habits of
  British consumers.
 While 2016
  saw consumer spending rise by 3.1%, a 12-year high, growth in the
  last three months of the year slowed to 0.7% from 0.9% in Q3, the
  weakest since the end of 2015.

  "Meanwhile, a 1.3% cash-terms rise in consumer spending in Q4
  dwarfed the 0.1% increase in wages and salaries in the same
  three-month period. So households appear to have borrowed more or
  dipped into savings to fund spending, raising a question mark
  over the sustainability of further growth."

  Former foreign secretary David Miliband believesthe Labour
  Party is at its weakest point for half a century.
, 51-year-old Miliband  who narrowly
  lost out on the Labour leadership in 2010  said: "I'm obviously
  deeply concerned that Labour is further from power than at any
  stage in my lifetime."
, which marked the first time a sitting party has
  gained a seat in a by-election since 1982. Labour had held
  Copeland for 80 years.

  "I don't think this is just a repeat of the 1980s," Miliband
  said. "We have to really understand the historic nature of the
  challenge that we have to face."

  Miliband is currently the head of the International Rescue
  Committee in New York. Asked whether he would consider making a
  comeback to UK politics, he said: "I honestly don't know what I
  am going to do. It's hard to see, but what's the point of saying
  never?"
by beating Labour's
  Gillian Troughton in the Copeland by-election. Harrison was
  elected as the constituency's first Tory MP by 13,748 votes to
  11,601 for Labour's Gillian Troughton, on a turnout of 51%.
. But despite winning, Labour's vote share of 37% in the
  constituency was 2% down on its general election result in 2015.
, Labour
  leader Corbyn admitted that "our message was not enough to win
  through in Copeland," but added that voters in the seat "have
  been let down by the political establishment."

  Corbyn also resisted calls for his resignation, telling
  reporters: "I was elected to lead this party. I am proud to lead
  this party," We take you through some of its most useful but less well-known features, including how to get WhatsApp on your computer, how to switch phone numbers on your account, andIn your phone's WhatsApp app, go to Settings > WhatsApp Web/Desktop and scan the barcode on the desktop app.Your reply will send with the message you are responding to embedded above it  similar to a how "quote retweet" works on Twitter.You might have to update your app to see this one, it only launched this week. TechCrunch describes it as an "When you tap to add "My Status" for the first time, after you create your status (photo/video) it will give you the option to choose who you want to send it to via a pop up. Choose "Privacy Settings" in the pop up and from there select who you want to share it with.If you switch off "last seen," people will still be able to see when you've read their message (via the double blue tick), but they won't be able to see when you were last online.The WhatsApp service is linked to the first number you enter and verify. This "number" will then follow you onto your next phone, even if you have a new number.If you get a new number, you can change your WhatsApp number quite easily bygoing to Settings > Account > Change Number and following the steps from there.If you're switching phones and you don't want to lose your chat history, make sure you back up your chats.
  We think theres only a modest chance that far-right candidate
  Marine Le Pen will win Frances presidential election. But a Le
  Pen presidency would rock Europe to its core, so its the biggest
  risk on Europes political calendar.

  The election has two rounds of voting. The first takes place on
  April 23, with the two top candidates advancing to a head-to-head
  contest on May 7. Recent opinion polls have consistently shown
  that Le Pen, the National Front leader, will likely win the first
  round. Unless something changes, we put the chances of her moving
  on to the second round at around 90%.

  Its more difficult to know who will face her in that contest.
  Until recently, the favorite was center-right Republican party
  candidate Francois Fillon. But damaging corruption allegations
  might force Fillon to withdraw and make way for another
  Republican candidate.

  So far, centrist candidate Emmanuel Macron has been the main
  beneficiary of Fillons spiralMacron now occupies second place
  in opinion polls. But Fillons fall from grace shows we cant
  take too much for granted at this early stagea lot could change
  between now and polling day.

  All indications suggest Le Pen will take the first-round vote,
  but her prospects of winning the second round look much more
  remote. Recent opinion polls suggest that Fillon would beat Le
  Pen by 1520 points and that Macron would beat her by almost 30
  points.

  Of course, opinion polls could be sending false signals about Le
  Pens second-round chances. But until we see some evidence of
  this, or signs of a shift in public opinion, were inclined to
  think the odds are stacked against her.

  So, while we see a 90% probability of Le Pen reaching the second
  round, we put the probability of her actually winning the
  election at a much lower 15%20%.

  With the campaigns barely under way, we think Macron and Fillon
  (or an alternative center-right candidate) are equally likely to
  win; we assign probabilities of 35%40% to both. Socialist party
  candidate Benoit Hamon is a clear outsider, with a probability of
  only 5%10%.

  For financial markets, there probably isnt much difference
  between a Macron or Fillon victory: both have reformist agendas,
  and a victory for either would likely lead to a modest relief
  rally. The same would not be true for Hamon: hes from the left
  of his party and plans to introduce a shorter working week and
  guaranteed minimum income.

  A Le Pen victory would be much more damaging. While some aspects
  of the National Fronts populist agenda are being echoed in other
  countriesincluding more protectionism and stricter immigration
  controlsLe Pen also wants to regain monetary, legislative,
  territorial and fiscal sovereignty from the European Union (EU).
  This would involve quitting the euro, restricting the free
  movement of people and abandoning EU debt and deficit limits.

  Some observers have rightly pointed out that it would be very
  hard for Le Pen to achieve these goals without a parliamentary
  majority (she has little to no chance of this). But thats hardly
  the point.

  At best, a French president hostile to the euro and the EU would
  plunge the union and its decision-making processes into chaos. At
  worst, it could mark the beginning of the end of the EU.

  The market reaction to a Le Pen victory would likely be severe.
  France, whose importance for economic and political integration
  in Europe has helped keep its debt yields closer to those of
  Germany than fundamentals might warrant, would likely see yields
  rise sharply.

  Nor would the rest of the euro area escape unscathed. Even though
  Le Pen would struggle to implement her program, theres little
  doubt that a National Front victory would lead investors to think
  that a euro-area breakup was more likely. This would drive
  peripheral yields higher and German yields lower, while putting
  downward pressure on the euros exchange rate.

  The European Central Bank (ECB) wouldnt stand idly by. But would
  ECB action be effective if the president of France were actively
  pushing in the opposite direction? A Le Pen victory may be a
  low-probability event, but would have very profound implications.

  Sen. Bernie Sanders responded to President Donald Trump's claim
  that a rally with his voters would be the "biggest ever" with
  photos of his inauguration crowd.
 suggesting that "maybe the millions of
  people who voted to MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN should have their
  own rally."

  Sanders, who ran against Hillary Clinton for the Democratic
  presidential nomination in 2016, responded with his own tweet:
 in January that his
  crowd seemed to be significantly smaller than the crowd that
  showed up for President Barack Obama's first inauguration in
  2008.
 during the first days of his
  presidency, accusing journalists of misstating the size of his
  crowd.
