business-insider

  ATLANTA In an extremely close race that went to multiple
  rounds of balloting, former Labor Secretary Tom Perezwas
  elected Saturday to head the Democratic National Committee,
  ending the months-long jockeying for the top spot in the
  Democratic Party's election arm.

  Perezwas elected with 235 votes, narrowly defeating Rep.
  Keith Ellison. South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg and
  Idaho Democratic Party chair Sally Boynton Brown, who also ran,
  dropped out on Saturday.

  During the first round of voting, Perez fell just one vote short
  of the number needed to win the chair.

  In his first motion as chairman, Perez moved to make Ellison the
  deputy chairman of the DNC, a new position. He praised the
  Minnesota congressman at length, emphasizing that the Democratic
  Party needed to come together and comparingthe rifts in the
  partyto a "spirited" political discussion over Thanksgiving
  dinner.

  "When I was looking in the audience, there was someone holding up
  a sign that says 'Unite.' And I could not agree more. For the two
  of us, that is easy, because we were always united in our
  values," Perez said. "And we are united in our love for the
  Democratic Party."

  The decision came after a contestwhich some viewed as a
  rehash of the 2016 presidential primary, with Perez garnering
  support fromestablishment figures like former Vice
  President Joe Biden and former Attorney General Eric
  Holderand Ellison representing the ascendant progressive
  wings of the Democratic Party. President Barack Obama, under whom
  Perez served, congraulated him on the victory, as did 2016
  Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.

  "Congrats to @DNC chair @TomPerez & deputy @keithellison.
  Excited for strong, unified party standing for best of our
  country into the future," Clinton tweeted.
 of Sen. Bernie Sanders during the primary, in which
  some DNC staffers appeared to favor Clinton over the Vermont
  senator.

  "The mood is that the previous leadership of the DNC was biased
  toward one candidate, and biased against another candidate,"
  Brian Ellison, Keith's brother, said shortly before the vote.

  "It's not even about TomPerez.It's about Obama,
  Hillary, and the people feeling slighted from Bernie Sanders'
  slight," he added.

  Standing onstage after Perez's victory, Ellison called for unity
  within the Democratic Party, telling supporters that Democrats
  "don't have the luxury to be divided."

  "I'm very very proud of Chairman Perez. He conducted himself with
  class, grace," Ellison said. "If you came here supporting me ...
  I'm asking you to give everything you've got to support Chairman
  Perez."

  "There's a little bit of [animosity]between Tomand
  Keith and their supporters. But I think we are getting beyond
  it," said Gary Winston Apple, a DNC member from Missouri who
  supportedEllison.

  Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, who backed Perez, dismissed that
  the contest was a "proxy war," but advisedthe chair to call
  members who did not vote for him to offer an olive branch.

  "Call every other person who voted for someone else and say 'This
  is also your party and you're just as important and I want to
  work with you,'" Garcetti told Business Insider on Friday.

  He added: "Whoever wins should be calling everybody else and
  saying, 'Let's make sure we're unified.'"

  Gretchen Carlson, who settled a multi-million lawsuit late last
  year against former Fox News chief Roger Ailes, is in talks with
  MSNBC to join the network, sources familiar with the matter told
  Business Insider.

  A source familiar with the matter said Carlson's deal had not yet
  been finalized, but was nearing completion. Two others at the
  network, including a high-level source,corroborated the
  news.

  An MSNBC spokesperson said Carlson had not joined the network,
  but would not comment on if she was in talks to do so. A
  representative for Carlson did not immediately respond to a
  request for comment.
against Ailes in September after filing a
  bombshell lawsuit alleging her termination from Fox News was a
  result of rebuffing his sexual advances.

  The lawsuit ultimately led to Ailes' resignation from the
  network, which he had headed since its founding in 1996.

  The announcement comes amid escalating tension between the White
  House press corps and Trump, who recently dubbed a number of
  mainstream outlets as the "enemy of the people."
also
  announced on Friday it would cancelitsafter-party,
  but said it would still attend the dinner.

  Jeff Mason, the president of the White House Correspondents'
  Association, said Saturday that the dinner would go on as
  planned.

  "The WHCA takes note of President Donald Trump's announcement on
  Twitter that he does not plan to attend the dinner, which has
  been and will continue to be a celebration of the First Amendment
  and the important role played by an independent news media in a
  healthy republic," Mason said.

  On Friday, reporters from several outlets, including the New York
  Times, CNN, and Politico, were 
  The WHCA vehemently objected to the move, saying in a statement
  it"will be discussing this further with White House staff."

  The annual dinner, held in April, is typically attended by an
  array of media outlets and celebrities, as well as the president,
  administration officials, and prominent politicians. A
  high-profile comedian usually emcees the event, and the president
  delivers a monologue.

  NATIONAL HARBOR, Md. The "Stand With Rand" shirts were out
  and the "Make America Great Again" hats were in among the younger
  crowdat this year's Conservative Political Action
  Conference.

  Libertarians, whonormally make up the loudest and most
  vocal faction at the annual nationwide gathering of
  conservatives, had a noticeably diminished presence at the 2017
  political confab.

  "I think it's disheartening," said Michael Hall, a spokesperson
  for Students for Liberty. "I'd like to see more libertarians
  here."

  In previous years, armies of supporters swarmed the conference
  halls championing Sen. Rand Paul  and formerly Ron Paul  as the
  future of the Republican Party. These attendees argued that an
  embrace of libertarianism would usher in a wave of youth support
  and rescue the GOP from assured death.

  But, after President Donald Trump's surprise November victory,
  the CPAC program conspicuously changed, underscoring
  nationalistic ideals while tepidly moving away from principles of
  small government that were popular among conservatives during
  President Barack Obama's eight years in office.

  The ideological shift at the conference aligned with the
  dominance of a new populist strain thattook hold of the
  Republican Party in the 2016 campaign.

  Matt Kibbe, president of Free the People, a nonprofit
  organization that promotes libertarian principles, said this
  year's agenda and lineup of speakers may, in part, explain the
  lack of libertarians present.

  "I was shocked when I looked at the schedule and, except for Ted
  Cruz, there are no liberty Republicans on the stage," he said.
  "There's no Rand Paul, obviously there's no Ron Paul  but
  there's no Justin Amash, there's no Thomas Massie, there's no
  Mike Lee."

  "So maybe part of the reason the liberty youth is not here is
  there is no liberty on the stage," he added. "It's very much
  driven by Trumpism and nationalism."

  Nick Gillespie, former editor-in-chief of the libertarian Reason
  magazine, agreed, contending that the American Conservative
  Union, the organization that hosts CPAC, had "started squeezing
  out" those who believed in libertarian ideals.

  "During the Obama years, Paul pere et fils were the only ones
  offering a serous critique of mainstream Republicanism, which the
  party recognizes is drifting," he said an email. "Trump's
  victory, however narrow, allows the GOP regulars to go about
  their business as if nothing is wrong."

  Matt Schlapp, chairman of the ACU, denied suggestions CPAC had
  abandonedlibertarianism, insisting in a brief interview
  that it was a "very big and important part of the conference."

  Asked if he sensed a smaller libertarian presence from previous
  years, Schlapp replied, "No, not at all."

  Yet, despite his claims, Students for Liberty was perhaps the
  only libertarian-minded youth organization advocating for
  libertarian ideals at CPAC. Other groups, like Young Americans
  for Liberty, chose to forego the conference this year.

  Cliff Maloney, president of YAL, said his group's purpose in the
  past has primarily been to "deliver a win for liberty minded
  folks in the CPAC straw poll" and that with Trump in the White
  House, influencing the straw poll would not achieve much.

  "I'm interested if it makes sense for us to be there, if the
  straw poll matters," Maloney said, pushing back against the idea
  that YAL aimed to make a statement by skipping this year's
  conference.

  Others also rejected the idea that the sizable decrease in
  numbers was reflective of how popular libertarianism is more
  broadly among the American people.

  "Rand isn't there and we have a newly elected president who is,"
  said Doug Stafford, who served as chief strategist for Paul's
  2016 presidential bid. "I don't find this at all mysterious or
  any indicator of the broader fight for liberty."

  Still, the absence of a vocal faction of libertarians left many
  attendees disappointed and dismayed. Kibbe said he was "surprised
  by the lack of liberty groups," and others who have been active
  in the movement said they too were disconcerted.

  "As someone who came into this movement through Dr. Paul's 2008
  campaign, I'm disappointed more of my libertarian friends aren't
  here," said Matthew Hurtt, a libertarian activist and former Ron
  Paul-supporting delegate at the Republican National Convention.
 John Verdejohad never heard of
  Pete Buttigieg before the Democratic National
  Committeechair's race. By Saturday's vote, he had only one
  impression of the South Bend, Indiana, mayor.

  Buttigieg ultimately failed to secure the DNC chairmanship:
  Lacking the votes to secure the role, the 36-year-old mayor
  dropped out of the race Saturday before anyone got the chance to
  vote forhim, and former labor secretary Tom Perez 
  Perhaps lacking the credibility of a serious challenger,
  Buttigieg's bid raised his national profile without damaging
  himin a way that negative press stories bruisedPerez
  and Ellison.

  In the final week of the campaign, some media outlets were
  enamored with the mayor. He attracted local press attention in
  states like California. The left-leaning outlet Salon said
  Buttigieg was shaking up the race for DNC chair by airing out
  the toxicity of the fight between Perez and Ellison. And he
  garnered positive coverage for his debate performance on CNN.

  President Donald Trump offered a backhanded congratulations to
  former Labor SecretaryTom Perez, who was narrowly elected
  chairman of the Democratic National Committee on Saturday.

  "Congratulations to Thomas Perez, who has just been named
  Chairman of the DNC. I could not be happier for him, or for the
  Republican Party!" 
  Perez won the chairmanship after a close race that was called
  after multiple rounds of balloting, eking out a victory over Rep.
  Keith Ellison of Minnesota.
 against the more progressive faction
  within the Democratic Party, which had largely supported Sen.
  Bernie Sanders of Vermont during his primary battle against
  Hillary Clinton.

  The race between Perez and Ellison was frequently compared to
  that of Clinton and Sanders, with Perez being seen as the
  establishment figure and Ellison as the populist who could more
  effectively help the party appeal to working-class voters.

  for predicting early in the 2016 campaign cycle that Trump could
  have staying power in the presidential field.

  "One thing I will say about Rep. Keith Ellison, in his fight to
  lead the DNC, is that he was the one who predicted early that I
  would win!" Trump tweeted.

  On Saturday morning, President Donald Trump took to Twitter to
  point out a fact he thought the media was underreporting: the
  decrease in the national debt in his first month.
, this is mostly due to the
  federal governmentrebalancing its intra-governmental
  holdings. Debt outstanding to the public 
  Additionally, the federal government is still operating under the
  budget passed before Trump came into office, so even if the
  overall debt decreased,his administration had little to do
  with it.

  Finally, and most importantly, the economic circumstances during
  his and Obama's first month in office are vastly different and
  make the comparisontotally off base.

  When Obama took office in January 2009, the country was in the
  midst of the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.
  The US economy
  In response to this crisis, Obama did what presidents typically
  do during recessions: took on debt to stimulate the economy.

  In the depths of a recession, private investment collapses. So,
  generally accepted economic theory concludes that the government
  should induce investment and step in during these times of crisis
  to prop up the stumbling private sector.

  Thus, both Obama and his predecessor George W. Bush signed into
  law bills to inject large amounts of capital into the economy to
  both save the financial sector and get people back to work.

  For instance, Bush passed the TroubledAsset Relief Program
  in October 2008 which used just over $426 billion in federal
  funds to "bail out" the country's largest banks. Obama signed the
  American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in February 2009 which
  allocated $831 billion in federal funds to finance investment
  projects such as infrastructure.

  By contrast, Trump has inherited  as he even noted  a country
  with a vastly improved economic standing.

  The labor market has improved drastically, with unemployment at
  just 4.8% and the number of people claiming unemployment benefits
  nearing the lowest point in 40 years. In fact, during Obama's
  term the US added over 11 million private sector jobs.

  While it's not all perfect  business investment is lagging,
  wages still haven't hit pre-crisis levels, and economic gains
  have not been equally distributed throughout the country  there
  is no doubt that Trump inherits a better economic starting
  position than Obama did in 2009 with no reason to spend massive
  amounts of federal money to assist the economy.

  The Democratic Party is in the midst of an identity crisis  but
  a leading Democratic senator said he has an idea of what the left
  needs to do in order to win at the ballot box in 2018 and 2020.

  Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, speaking with Business
  Insider during a promotional tour for his new
  book,
  "I think one of the reasons I wrote this book is that I think
  this issue needs to be brought out front and center," he said.
  "If you have to compete with an entity that is actually a front
  group for a big special interest and you haven't successfully
  told the story of how it's just the end of the tentacle, then
  you're going to be at a huge disadvantage. And what it says will
  be given more face-value credit by the public than if they knew,
  'Oh, OK, that's the glove with the Koch brothers hand in it, with
  Wall Street's hand in it.' So I think it's really important we
  focus on that."

  The second plank, he said, needs to be a "really, really strong
  and simplified economic message," somethinghe said
  Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton did not do in 2016.

  "And we love, love, love to prove our bona fides by having a
  really good plan," he said. "And nobody wants to hear about a
  plan. They want a wall or something simple and captivating. And
  10-point plans kind of go in the metal disposal bin."

  "Stuff that people can envision and we can deliver," he added.
  "I've spent 10 years in the Senate now and the talk about
  messaging is making me increasingly insane. I don't think you
  earn the right to a message until you've earned it by having a
  real fight, really being willing to stand up for what you believe
  in."

  He said Democrats' tendency to be "constantly" moving "from
  message point to message point,positioning yourself on
  issues without ever taking a step back, deciding what the hell
  you're going to do, and jamming it through as best you can, or at
  least making it one hell of a big fight so that everyone in the
  country knows that it took place," is a major "mistake."

  The party must take a handful of issues and be exceptionally
  visible on them, he said,naming student-debt relief and a
  carbon taxas two such things.

  "You can pick others, but I think having just a visible known few
  that become our, 'If you elect us, this is what you will get or
  we will die trying,'" he said.

  The third plank, he said, was making sure the party is "solid" on
  its national security and defense platform.

  "I think that's where, just not letting ourselves get painted
  into a soft-on-safety corner," he said. "But I think that having
  a lot of respect for law enforcement and showing it, having a lot
  of respect for the military and showing it  and getting ahead of
  the big liabilities like cybersecurity are very good places to
  be."

  "I don't think that's going to be a winning hand for us, but it
  keeps ...a winning hand from becoming a winning hand for
  the Republicans," he continued.

  The GOP has been extremely successful in painting the Democrats
  as soft in those areas, he added.

  "Look at 2014 when ISIS popped up and Ebola popped up and the
  children from Guatemala and Central America were starting to come
  across the border," he said. "And the next thing you know Fox
  News had turned that all into the Ebola babies coming over the
  borders to come slice your head off like ISIS into kind of one
  big panic. And our Democratic message that election was exactly
  zero. And we just got crushed as a result."

  "So that's the proof that we can't let ourselves get boxed in on
  it," he continued. "Because frankly, we had just as good policies
  if not better in those areas. We just don't talk about them."

  Each of the three seems to come back to one core idea: that
  Democrats don't have their messaging together, or haven't been
  able to effectively get their message across.

  "Well, I think if I knew that I would be a bigger wheel in our
  operation," Whitehouse said. "I don't know the answer to that. I
  think partly it comes from the sort of big-tent, check-the-box
  politics that can emerge from a party that has very broad but not
  particularly deep backing. So, you've got right with Planned
  Parenthood, you've got right with the LGBT community, you've got
  right with public labor unions, you've got right with the private
  labor unions, you've got right with young voters, and you kind
  of, every time you do that, there's another added step."

  "And like the guy with 1,000 nails, nothing penetrates because
  there are so many nails you can actually lie on them
  comfortably," he continued. "So nothing actually sank through."

  "So, I don't know, those are some of my original thoughts," he
  continued. "If we were ... if it were just a few more centralized
  forces who ran our party, then you would say, 'All right, these
  are the sort ofthree or four things we're pushing on.' And
  to the folks inother industries who aren't part of those
  three or four, we'd just say, 'Look, shut up for now  we're
  trying to win this election. We'll take care of you when we're
  in. You know we will. So stand by. You don't have to clamor.'"

  Democratic voters must take a viewpoint that many on the right
  have been able to more easily embrace, particularly in electing
  President Donald Trump a focus on winning.

  "Everybody, to have their issue at the forefront as your measure
  of success  your measure of success is we get in, and then we
  deliver for you," he said. "And, that simply doesn't work on our
  side the way it does on the other side."

  "For us, it's an uphill fight to get a clear, distinctive,
  memorable message out of the cacophonyof our multiple
  support groups," he continued. "For the other side, it's actually
  kind of delivered to them by the organizations behind them that
  dominate in the Republican political background ...and so I
  think my colleagues kind of sit on the table reading from the
  package. When it comes, they go out and sell it. Whereas we're
  all like out with everybody making sure it's success for us if we
  get their idea on the table and the platform has to have 90
  different parts to it and if anybody is left out they're all
  jumping up and down about it."

  Sen. Bernie Sanders responded to President Donald Trump's claim
  that a rally with his voters would be the "biggest ever" with
  photos of his inauguration crowd.
 suggesting that "maybe the millions of
  people who voted to MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN should have their
  own rally."

  Sanders, who ran against Hillary Clinton for the Democratic
  presidential nomination in 2016, responded with his own tweet:
 in January that his
  crowd seemed to be significantly smaller than the crowd that
  showed up for President Barack Obama's first inauguration in
  2008.
 during the first days of his
  presidency, accusing journalists of misstating the size of his
  crowd.

  Sam Altman is an investor who lives in Silicon Valley. He voted
  for Hillary Clinton, but spent the months following the election
  interviewing as many Donald Trump supporters as he could find.

  He traveled throughout the United States to better understand
  what the other half of America was thinking and feeling.

  He asked 1oo Trump supporters about all sorts of key issues,
  ranging from abortion to immigration.

  Many people who voiced concernsabout immigration weren't
  frustrated that immigrants mightbe taking job opportunities
  from them. Instead, they were more worried about the overall
  culture of America changing, and they felt tightening borders
  could help preserve it.

  "The most surprising takeaway for me was how little [the
  anti-immigration feelings] seemed to be driven by economic
  concerns," Altman wrote. Instead, much of
  itwas"driven by fears about 'losing our
  culture,''safety,''community,' and a general
  Us-vs.-Them mentality."
