cnbc
said on Saturday he would not attend the White House Correspondent's Association Dinner, an annual parade of celebrities, journalists and politicians that in recent years has drawn fire for being too opulent and self-indulgent.Amid tensions between the White House and the national media about whether reporters are covering the president objectively, Trump said in a tweet that he would not attend the functionderisively referred to as "Nerd Prom"on April 29.In recent days, a debate has erupted over whether the WHCA should altogether cancel its event, widely regarded as elbow-rubbing between Hollywood, media and political elites. On Friday, the acrimonious relationship between Trump and the media reached a crescendo when the White House  for an informal on-the-record briefing, yet barred othersincluding CNN, The New York Times and the Los Angeles Times.The president's decision to skip the WHCA dinner arrives at a time when even journalists have questioned whether the event has become too insular and self-congratulatory. Each year, reporters co-mingle with celebrities in a display of celebrity-soaked pageantry, featuring lots of sponsored parties and related events.In a statement earlier this month, the WHCA said the dinner would "celebrate the First Amendment and the role an independent press plays in a healthy republic," among other things.However, the association added that it would continue to "pursue its core mission of advocating for journalists' ability to ask questions of government officials, push for transparency from the presidency, and help Americans hold the powerful to account. This is a responsibility that we have taken seriously for more than 100 years and will continue to uphold," WHCA president Jeff Mason added.
                    							    		    			    				    				
					    						    						    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		       		    		    			    				    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		       		    		    			    				    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		       		    									Last year, TCL signed a brand licensing deal with BlackBerry to use the technology company's name for new smartphones, while the Toronto-based technology giant refocuses its business on software rather than devices. At the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, TCL took the wraps off the BlackBerry KEYone, which will be available in April. It's key features that include:BlackBerry was once one of the most dominant brands in the mobile phone world, but quickly fell from the top of the heap shortly after introduced the iPhone. The latter quickly seized the imagination of gadget geeks and devoured market share, leaving BlackBerry in the dust.also bulldozed its way into the smartphone market, but tried to stage a comeback as its market share languished in the single digits. BlackBerry's efforts included releasing new units like the Leap and Android-powered PRIV,  all of which fell flat as smartphone users flocked to iPhones and Galaxy devices.After licensing its brand to TCL to make devices with the BlackBerry name, BlackBerry has increased its focus on software. Meanwhile TCL is hoping that it can use BlackBerry's once strong brand to win back consumers that have since moved on.The TCL executive also revealed that there will be more BlackBerry products coming to target the consumer market. But with Apple, Samsung and Huawei dominating the high-end smartphone market, analysts said it could be a tough time for TCL's BlackBerry devices."TCL will be hoping that by licensing the BlackBerry brand it can extend its market reach beyond the low margin consumer segment (which it currently targets via the Alcatel brand) to the higher margin enterprise devices space," Ben Wood, chief of research at CCS Insight, told CNBC by email.In recent years, BlackBerry's operating system struggled to compete against Android and Apple's iOS, both of which dominate the market. However, Cistulli said this time it is different and is setting ambitious goals for TCL.The executive said the company, which also makes the Alcatel brand of mobile phones, is aiming to be the number three player in North America by 2020, and near the top five globally. After a difficult 2016 campaign that saw them lose in the White House, both chambers of Congress and in state houses across the country, Democrats elected Tom Perez, the former Labor Secretary during the Obama Administration, to lead the Democratic National Committee on Saturday.Perez won in the second round of voting during the 2017 Winter DNC Meeting in Atlanta, earning 235 votes from the 447 DNC members  the voting bloc that decides the chairmanship. Perez was considered the heavy favorite of the Democratic establishment.Minnesota Congressman Keith Ellison, the preferred candidate of the Bernie Sanders wing of the party, came in second, earning 200 votes in the second round of votes. Half ballots are given to Democrats voting abroad.Ellison stated that it was necessary to unite behind Perez for the party to move forward. He was appointed the party's deputy chairman.The other five candidates dropped out of the race before the second round of votes, leaving it to establishment favorite Perez and Ellison, the preferred candidate of the more liberal wing of the party.Mayor Pete Buttigeig of South Bend, Indiana, did not make it to the voting process, announcing during his nomination speech that he would be exiting the race. Buttigeig, 35, built a national profile as an emerging dark horse in the race for the chairmanship with the backing of former DNC Chairman Howard Dean."I want to thank my competitors for their graciousness beginning the day I got into this race  proving what unites us is greater than our divisions," Buttigeig said."It looks like I'm not going to be the next chair," he added. "But whoever is, I am urging to do the things that must be done to be open to change, to look beyond Washington, to not treat the presidency like it's the only office that matters, to pay attention to communities like ours in the heart of our country  not as an exotic species  but as your fellow Americans."The former Naval intelligence officer campaigned on the idea that the aging Democratic Party needed to empower its millennial members.The 447 members of the Democratic National Committee will vote Saturday morning, gathering in a ballroom to cast their ballots for chair and other party officer positions.If nobody secures a majority, candidates will have a short window to lobby members of the DNC before another round of voting. Members On the eve of the election, Perez forces were feeling confident as they told Democrats they had pulled ahead, buoyed by the late endorsement of Jaime Harrison, the chairman of the South Carolina Democratic Party, "We're going to be unified and we're going to get this thing done on the first ballot," Harrison told supporters Friday night.The DNC's chief fundraiser, Henry Munoz, who is running unopposed for reelection as Finance Chairman, gave Perez a final boost late Friday with his endorsement after remaining neutral throughout the race.Ellison allies acknowledged they were in a weaker position, but pushed back on the Perez campaign's attempts to create an air of inevitability."It's that moment. It is that moment to bring forth your strongest argument," Ellison told supporters.In such an insular race, voters commitments to cast a ballot in a certain way don't always materialize and anything can happen.And after a four-month election, candidates in all camps spent the closing days saying whoever won the chair's race need to heal the rift between the party's establishment wing, represented by Perez, and anti-establishment side, which has rallied behind Ellison.Candidates campaigned up until the last minute, buttonholing undecided DNC members at a hotel bar after midnight and host parties with live bands and free food.Ringers were flown in to give candidates a final boost with the dwindling number of voters still not aligned with either candidate.New York City Mayor Bill DeBlasio towered over DNC members as he pressed his case for Ellison. "Keith Ellison is a man of destiny," he told them. "This is not an optional situation. We need Keith Ellison."Meanwhile, Valerie Jarrett, the longtime confidant of former president Obama, phoned DNC members to support Perez, while Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti reinforced Perez' troops on the ground. on Saturday devoted more than four pages of his 29-page annual shareholder letter to criticism of active managers on Wall Street, excoriating what he perceived as exorbitant fees they charge for returns that fail to live up to lofty assumptions.Meanwhile the legendary stock picker extolled the virtues of passive investing and its advantages for regular investors. The 'Oracle of Omaha' even compared active managers to monkeys, and estimated that financial advisors, in their futile search for ways to beat the market, had cost clients $100 billion in wasted fees in the last 10 years."When trillions of dollars are managed by Wall Streeters charging high fees, it will usually be the managers who reap outsized profits, not the clients," stated the widely-read letter released on Saturday morning. "Both large and small investors should stick with low-cost index funds."Buffett started this critical section of the letter with an update on a 10-year wager against Wall Street's active management he made nine years ago, with the proceeds going to a charity. This is how the billionaire described his original challenge:"I publicly offered to wager $500,000 that no investment pro could select a set of at least five hedge funds  wildly-popular and high-fee investing vehicles  that would over an extended period match the performance of an unmanaged S&P-500 index fund charging only token fees. I suggested a ten-year bet and named a low-cost Vanguard S&P fund as my contender. I then sat back and waited expectantly for a parade of fund managers  who could include their own fund as one of the five  to come forth and defend their occupation. After all, these managers urged others to bet billions on their abilities. Why should they fear putting a little of their own money on the line?"To his surprise, only one person stepped up to take the other side of the bet: Protg  Partners' Ted Seides, a 'fund of funds' manager. According to the bet, Seides selected five funds of hedge funds, whose results after fees would be averaged and compared to Buffett's selection, a Vanguard S&P index fund."The compounded annual increase to date for the index fund is 7.1%, which is a return that could easily prove typical for the stock market over time...The five funds-of-funds delivered, through 2016, an average of only 2.2%, compounded annually. That means $1 million invested in those funds would have gained $220,000. The index fund would meanwhile have gained $854,000.""The results for their investors were dismal  really dismal. And, alas, the huge fixed fees charged by all of the funds and funds-of-funds involved  fees that were totally unwarranted by performance  were such that their managers were showered with compensation over the nine years that have passed," Buffett wrote. "As Gordon Gekko might have put it: 'Fees never sleep.'"Investors seem to be heeding Buffett's anti-active advice, as more than $20 billion flowed out of U.S. active equity funds in January despite a rising stock market, . In the last 12 months, more than half a trillion dollars have flowed into passive funds, while active funds have experienced outflows, Morningstar's data showed. In his letter, Buffett criticized how the whole Wall Street complex is still set up to send pension funds, endowments and other investor types into under-performing active vehicles. He claimed that the wealthy investor classes are getting ripped off the most:"In many aspects of life, indeed, wealth does command top-grade products or services. For that reason, the financial 'elites'  wealthy individuals, pension funds, college endowments and the like  have great trouble meekly signing up for a financial product or service that is available as well to people investing only a few thousand dollars. This reluctance of the rich normally prevails even though the product at issue is on an expectancy basis  clearly the best choice. My calculation, admittedly very rough, is that the search by the elite for superior investment advice has caused it, in aggregate, to waste more than $100 billion over the past decade. Figure it out: Even a 1% fee on a few trillion dollars adds up. Of course, not every investor who put money in hedge funds ten years ago lagged S&P returns. But I believe my calculation of the aggregate shortfall is conservative."Buffett stated that he knows of only 10 managers that he spotted early on who could outperform the S&P 500 over the long term, and they did so. He acknowledged there are more out there who may be able to beat the market, but they are the clear exception. "Further complicating the search for the rare high-fee manager who is worth his or her pay is the fact that some investment professionals, just as some amateurs, will be lucky over short periods," Buffett wrote. "If 1,000 managers make a market prediction at the beginning of a year, it's very likely that the calls of at least one will be correct for nine consecutive years. Of course, 1,000 monkeys would be just as likely to produce a seemingly all-wise prophet. But there would remain a difference: The lucky monkey would not find people standing in line to invest with him.""If a statue is ever erected to honor the person who has done the most for American investors, the hands down choice should be Jack Bogle," the letter stated. "In his early years, Jack was frequently mocked by the investment-management industry. Today, however, he has the satisfaction of knowing that he helped millions of investors realize far better returns on their savings than they otherwise would have earned."released its closely-watched annual letter on Saturday, in which the Oracle of Omaha told investors that the holding company's investment gains would continue to be 'substantial' in the coming years and the U.S. economy would continue its 'miraculous' boom.The Omaha, Nebraska-based conglomerate's net earnings rose to $6.29 billion in the fourth quarter of 2016, up from $5.48 billion in the comparable year ago period. Investors frequently parse the document for Buffett's insights into specific sectors, in addition to his thoughts on the economy."Our expectation is that investment gains will continue to be substantial  though totally random as to timing  and that these will supply significant funds for business purchases," Buffett wrote in the letter."Concurrently, Berkshire's superb corps of operating CEOs will focus on increasing earnings at the individual businesses they manage, sometimes helping them to grow by making bolt-on acquisitions."The 86-year old investor and his partner, 93 year-old Charlie Munger, have functioned as a dynamic duo that's helped turn Berkshire into a household name. Buffett wrote that the partnership will sometimes yield fewer dividends, but would remain lucrative."Some years, the gains in underlying earning power we achieve will be minor; very occasionally, the cash register will ring loud. Charlie and I have no magic plan to add earnings except to dream big and to be prepared mentally and financially to act fast when opportunities present themselves," Buffett said."Every decade or so, dark clouds will fill the economic skies, and they will briefly rain gold. When downpours of that sort occur, it's imperative that we rush outdoors carrying washtubs, not teaspoons. And that we will do," the investor wrote. economic policies will impact their businesses, Buffett  who prominently backed Democratic contender  in the general election  largely steered clear of making any statements that could be construed as controversial.Buffett did, however, speak favorably about immigrants, a segment of the U.S. population that has been under the microscope in recent weeks. Trump has moved to block illegal immigration, and issued a controversial travel ban to restrict movement by foreign citizens from seven countries linked to terrorism."Americans have combined human ingenuity, a market system, a tide of talented and ambitious immigrants, and the rule of law to deliver abundance beyond any dreams of our forefathers," the investor wrote."I'll repeat what I've both said in the past and expect to say in future years: Babies born in America today are the luckiest crop in history."Buffett also lauded what he called the "miraculous" performance of the U.S. economy, a dynamic he expects to help boost the company's own bottom line. Since 1965, Berkshire has returned a whopping 19 percent annual gain, a function of what Buffett said was a free market that created American prosperity.Buffett, one of the world's richest men and widely considered to be a highly skilled investor, was also critical of fund managers, who he singled out as profiting from charging high fees rather than sound investing and generous returns. "When trillions of dollars are managed by Wall Streeters charging high fees, it will usually be the managers who reap outsized profits, not the clients," said Buffett, widely considered, the legendary investor who's doubled the return of the S&P 500 Index over the last 51 years, devoted a portion of his annual shareholder letter to pointing out some of his biggest mistakesand what he's learned from them. stock to buy General Reinsurance in 1998. The move increased Berkshires shares outstanding by more than 20 percent for a reinsurer that stumbled initially after the purchase. "My error caused Berkshire shareholders to give far more than they received (a practice that  despite the Biblical endorsement  is far from blessed when you are buying businesses)," the Berkshire chairman wrote in the letter released Saturday morning. Buffett then described how he "atoned" for that mistake by buying a majority stake in utility MidAmerican Energy for all cash in 2000."The MidAmerican cash purchase  I was learning  firmly launched us on our present course of (1) continuing to build our insurance operation; (2) energetically acquiring large and diversified non-insurance businesses and (3) largely making our deals from internally-generated cash," Buffett wrote.Also in the letter, Buffett, 86, copped to buying a company that lost all of its value, not something investors would expect from the money making legend."I made one particularly egregious error, acquiring Dexter Shoe for $434 million in 1993. Dexter's value promptly went to zero. The story gets worse: I used stock for the purchase, giving the sellers 25,203 shares of Berkshire that at yearend 2016 were worth more than $6 billion," states the letter.Berkshire's market value increased 23 percent last year, bringing its annual percentage change to 20.8 percent since 1965. Over the same period, the S&P 500 has returned with dividends included 9.7 percent. In the section of the letter devoted to manufacturing, service and retailing operations or as Buffett described them "lollipops to jet airplanes" the Oracle described what led him to make some errors in that sector, but doesn't identify the specific businesses:"A few, however  these are serious blunders I made in my job of capital allocation  produce very poor returns. In most cases, I was wrong when I originally sized up the economic characteristics of these companies or the industries in which they operate, and we are now paying the price for my misjudgments. In a couple of instances, I stumbled in assessing either the fidelity or ability of incumbent managers or ones I later put in place.""I will commit more errors; you can count on that. Fortunately, Charlie  never bashful  is around to say 'no' to my worst ideas," wrote Buffett.News organizations including The New York Times, the Los Angeles Times, CNN and Politico were blocked from joining an informal, on-the-record White House press briefing Friday.The Associated Press chose not to participate in the briefing after White House press secretary Sean Spicer restricted the number of journalists included. Typically, the daily briefing is televised and open to all news organizations credentialed to cover the White House."The AP believes the public should have as much access to the president as possible," Lauren Easton, the AP's director of media relations, said in a statement. delivered a speech blasting the media, Spicer invited only a pool of news organizations that represents and shares reporting with the larger press corps. He also invited several other major news outlets, as well as smaller organizations including the conservative Washington Times, One America News Network and Breitbart News, whose former executive chairman, Steve Bannon, is Trump's chief strategist. When the additional news organizations attempted to gain access, they weren't allowed to enter.The White House said it felt "everyone was represented" by those in the pool and the invited organizations."We decided to add a couple of additional people beyond the pool. Nothing more than that," said White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders.When asked by a reporter attending whether he was playing favorites, Spicer said the White House had "shown an abundance of accessibility," according to an audio recording of the briefing later circulated by the pool.The pool included Reuters, Bloomberg, CBS, Hearst Newspapers and CBS Radio. Others in the briefing were Fox, NBC and ABC. Bloomberg reported that its reporter was unaware of the exclusions until after the briefing.John Roberts, Fox's chief White House correspondent, told anchor Shepard Smith on the air Friday that Fox supports complaints being filed by the White House Correspondents Association and pool TV networks."You can speculate, Shep, that there might be some extenuating circumstances as to why those people were not invited, we're going to look into that further...." Roberts said.In a statement, the correspondent association's president, Jeff Mason, said the group was "protesting strongly" against how the briefing was handled by the White House."We recorded audio of this event and quickly shared it out of an obligation to protect the interests of all pool members," the news division said.When Spicer was asked by a reporter at the briefing whether he was playing favorites, he said he "disagreed with the premise of the question," according to the audio."We've brought more reporters into this process. And the idea that every time that every single person can't get their question answered or fit in a room that we're excluding people. We've actually gone above and beyond with making ourselves, our team, and our briefing room more accessible than probably any prior administration. And so I think you can take that to the bank."We do what we can to accommodate the press. I think we've gone above and beyond when it comes to accessibility, and openness and getting folks  our officials, our team."During a panel discussion last December, Spicer said that open access for the media is "what makes a democracy a democracy versus a dictatorship."Davan Maharaj, editor-in-chief and publisher of the Los Angeles Times, called the newspaper's exclusion "unfortunate.""The public has a right to know, and that means being informed by a variety of news sources, not just those filtered by the White House press office in hopes of getting friendly coverage," Maharaj said in a statement. "Regardless of access, the Times will continue to report on the Trump administration without fear or favor."Dean Baquet, executive editor of The New York Times, said that "nothing like this has ever happened at the White House in our long history of covering multiple administrations of different parties. We strongly protest the exclusion of The New York Times and the other news organizations. Free media access to a transparent government is obviously of crucial national interest."CNN's Jake Tapper took aim at the White House as he kicked off "The Lead with Jake Tapper" hours after the briefing."A White House that has had some difficulty telling the truth and that has seemed to have trouble getting up to speed on the basic competent functioning of government, and a president who seems particularly averse to any criticism and has called the press the enemies of the American people  they're taking the next step in attempting to avoid checks and balances and accountability."It's not acceptable. In fact, it's petulant, and indicative of a lack of basic understanding of how an adult White House functions," Tapper said."We are concerned by the decision to bar reporters from a press secretary briefing," CPJ Executive Director Joel Simon said in a statement. "The U.S. should be promoting press freedom and access to information."The Indonesian woman who is one of the suspects in the killing of North Korean ruler Kim Jong Un's half brother said she was paid $90 for what she believed was a prank, an Indonesian official said Saturday.Siti Aisyah also told authorities she did not want her parents to see her in custody, Andriano Erwin, Indonesia's deputy ambassador to Malaysia, said one day after Malaysia revealed that VX nerve agent was used in the bizarre killing at Kuala Lumpur's airport."She doesn't want her family get sad to see her condition," Erwin said after a 30-minute meeting with Aisyah. "She only delivered a message through us to her father and mother not to be worried and take care of their health."The public poisoning of Kim Jong Nam, which took place Feb. 13 amid crowds of travelers at the airport, appeared to be a well-planned hit. Kim was dead within hours of the attack, in which two women went up behind him and appeared to smear something onto his face.Aisyah, 25, has said previously that she was duped into the attack, but Malaysian police say she and the other female suspect, a Vietnamese woman who also is in custody, knew what they were doing.The revelation that VX nerve agent killed Kim has boosted speculation that North Korea had dispatched a hit squad to Malaysia to kill Kim, whose younger half brother is Kim Jong Un.The thick, oily poison was almost certainly produced in a sophisticated state weapons laboratory, experts say, and is banned under international treaties. North Korea, a prime suspect in the case, never signed that treaty, and has spent decades developing a complex chemical weapons program.Though Kim Jong Nam was not an obvious political threat to his sibling, he may have been seen as a potential rival in the country's dynastic dictatorship.Malaysia hasn't directly accused the North Korean government of being behind the attack, but officials have said four North Korean men provided the two women with poison. The four fled Malaysia shortly after the killing.On Saturday, police confirmed that a raid earlier in the week on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur was part of the investigation. Senior police official Abdul Samah Mat, who is handling the investigation, did not specify what authorities found there, but said the items were being tested for traces of any chemicals.Kim Jong Nam, who had been living abroad for years, was approached by the two women on Feb. 13 as he waited for a flight home to Macau. In grainy surveillance footage, the women appear to rub something onto his face before walking away in separate directions.VX is an extremely powerful poison, with an amount no larger than a few grains of salt enough to kill. An odorless chemical, it can be inhaled, swallowed or absorbed through the skin. Then, in anywhere from a few seconds to a few hours, it can cause a range of symptoms, from blurred vision to a headache. Enough exposure leads to convulsions, paralysis, respiratory failure and death.It has the consistency of motor oil and can take days or even weeks to evaporate. It could have contaminated anywhere Kim was afterward, including medical facilities and the ambulance he was transported in, experts say.Airport officials and police have insisted the facility is safe. Abdul Samah, the police official, said police are tracing the suspects' steps to ensure public safety.
                    							    		    			    				    				
					    						    						    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		       		    		    			    				    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		       		    		    			    				    				
					    						    						    							    								    							    							    							    							      				      			       		    				
					    						    					      			       		       		    									Yes, we said industry. What used to be thought of as petty theft is now a $30 billion a year business that retailers and law enforcement call "organized retail crime." It features roving bands of shoplifters, midlevel operatives who fence the stolen goods, and bosses who control the enterprise."It's definitely the biggest problem retailers face," said Robert Moraca, Vice President of Loss Prevention at the National Retail Federation., had the drill down pat. From his apartment above the tavern he owned, Vendetti controlled a retail crime ring whose foot soldiersprofessional shoplifters known in the industry as "boosters"stole an estimated $700,000 worth of merchandise from big box stores and supermarkets. Then Vendetti and his team sold the goods online."It's a very large number of these boosters who would steal anything from a TV to flea medicine. They bring them back to him, and then he would resell it. And in this case, he was reselling it 50 cents on the dollar for retail value online," Sakovics said.But here is the good part, Sakovics said. "He would pay his boosters 25 cents (on the dollar). So he was a making a 25 percent profit off retail value."The business model is fairly typical of retail crime rings across the country. Which items are most in demand by shoplifting rings these days?"The most valuable to them are things like designer apparel, anything with a brand name," Moraca said. "And then they move to high-end handbags, because they're high value and they're easy to move, and then we move into electronics, and that's laptop computers, iPads, cell phones, and all the accessories that go with that."A common thread is the size of the items. Because it turns out that in order to really make it big in retail crime, you have to think small."There's items like razors, men's and women's razors, and then there's teeth whitening strips, because those items are costly, and they're not that big, where they can get a lot of them off the shelf," Moraca said. "And then last but not least, for about the last decade, believe it or not, laundry detergent."Moraca explains that liquid laundry soap is popular among shoplifters because it can be sold anywhereeven from the trunk of a car. It is the same reason that baby formula is popular, and that can be dangerous."That has to be stored at a certain temperature, it has an expiration date. Cosmetics are in the same realm there; they have expiration dates. So if those things are not stored properly, they can end up being a health hazard for the end consumer."Big name online marketplaces like eBay, once criticized by retailers for not doing enough to weed out stolen goods, have gotten much better at working with law enforcement and retailers, Moraca says. The problem is the proliferation of smaller marketplaces and auction sites, coupled with consumers looking for great deals.To protect yourself, check the packaging. Damaged serial numbers or mismatched labels can be telltale signs.Also, beware of unusually low prices. Sure, a bargain is tempting, but not if the merchandise has been stolen. Besides, every piece of stolen merchandise costs retailers money, and the retailers pass those costs on to you. So while you may be getting a good price now, you will pay the price later on.The studio is finally giving fans what they've clamored for since Hugh Jackman first played the X-Men's marquee mutant nearly 17 years ago: an R-rated Wolverine movie. If the upcoming "Logan" which opens next Fridayis a success, it could be the start of a string of X-Men movies that embrace mature content, some say.This marks the first time a studio has ventured an R-rating on a movie starring an A-list superhero since the golden age of comic book movies kicked off with "Iron Man" in 2008.Prevailing wisdom has held that a PG-13 rating will draw wider crowds. But the success last year of Fox's adult-oriented "Deadpool"  as well as 's gritty Marvel Comics shows like "Daredevil" and "Luke Cage"  have overturned conventional thinking. Meanwhile, DC Comics has begun , producing two R-rated cartoon features in the last year: "The Killing Joke" and "Justice League Dark". A passion project of star Ryan Reynolds, "Deadpool" exceeded many analysts' expectations, setting a box office record for an R-rated film and earning the biggest worldwide haul of any movie in the X-Men franchise.To be sure, "Deadpool" succeeded not just because it featured graphic violence and language. It was also bolstered by a But an R-rating also makes sense for Jackman's final appearance as the X-Men's enforcer because the character has always been rooted in a history of violence. "Logan" features a weakened, aging Wolverine who is coming to terms with that legacy."To be able to crank up the volume to 11 is a great way to get audiences really excited about these movies, particularly for characters like Wolverine and Deadpool who have a hard edge to them," said Paul Dergarabedian, senior media analyst at "These are really intense characters that I think, in order to be fully fleshed out, almost require the R-rated treatment."Movie-goers also seem to be energized. "Logan" was the third most talked about movie on social media in the week through Feb. 19, behind "Star Wars: The Last Jedi" and the upcoming live-action "Beauty and the Beast," according to comScore data."Logan" has also largely kept pace with the social media darling "Deadpool" on Instagram, according to engagement measuring firm Spredfast. at the U.S. box office, though some put that figure higher. BoxOffice.com is projecting a roughly $80 million opening, and chief analyst Shawn Robbins says forecasts are trending higher."Logan's momentum has continued to sharpen in a big way thanks to Fox's strong ad campaign and ecstatic reviews from critics. Social media buzz reflects significant interest driven by those factors as well as the film's R rating and Jackman's final turn as the iconic character," he said in an email.A "Deadpool" sequel is sure to be R-rated, and an under-development film based on the para-military X-Force group seems like another candidate for the rating.Yet Dergarabedian said he is not yet convinced Fox will move its flagship X-Men films in the same direction, because the the spirit of the property doesn't beg for it. A spinoff based on the "New Mutants" series featuring teenage characters and helmed by "The Fault in Our Stars" director Josh Boone also seems unlikely to get an R-rating.Still, the core X-Men films are showing signs of fatigue. Last year's "X-Men: Apocalypse" underperformed its predecessor by $200 million globally.'s Marvel films and Warner Bros.' DC movies, said Jeff Bock, senior box office analyst at Exhibitor Relations Co. Fox could even release two cuts of the film for different age groups, he added."Since there is so much potential in the X-Men universe for Fox, there is no doubt they're going to mine it and spin it off and give us another dozen sequels. The question is what direction do they go?" he said.Whether "Logan" outperforms 2013's "The Wolverine" and approaches the success of "Deadpool" could determine Fox's path, according to Bock.