engadget
With a global launch in the works and the hopes of diehards at an all-time high, the pressure was on BlackBerry and TCL to deliver on all that . We can't render an official verdict yet, but my gut tells me they're onto something. Say hello to the BlackBerry KEYone.Yes, "Mercury" was a better name, and yes, the capitalization is weirding us out too. No matter: Despite the nature of its creation, the KEYone feels like a pretty triumphant return to form for a brand in need of a boost.The hardware hasn't changed since the phone broke cover at CES, but we now know what makes it tick. Inside is one of Qualcomm's octa-core Snapdragon 625 chipsets, with an Adreno 506 GPU, 3GB of RAM and 32GB of built-in storage. (Thankfully, you can toss in a microSD card as large as 2TB, just to be safe.) While that's certainly not the fastest slab of silicon out there, BlackBerry Mobile says it chose the processor "very specifically" to work in tandem with the 3,505mAh battery to deliver battery life that can stretch into two full days -- another classic BlackBerry trait the KEYone tries to channel.I wouldn't worry a whole lot about performance, by the way. We've seen that exact load-out before in devices like , and while it won't necessarily blow you away, I was more than pleased with how quick this little thing was. Even with a non-final version of  onboard, navigating through menus and frenzied multitasking were no problem -- just what you'd want in a device meant specifically to get things done. Up front is that 4.5-inch display running at a slightly odd, 3:2 aspect ratio. Everything on that 1,620x1,080 screen is plenty crisp, though it certainly takes a little getting used to.To hear the company's pitchmen tell it, the KEYone was purpose-built for people who appreciated the things that made old-school BlackBerrys so great. It stands to reason that the people involved agonized over the keyboard, and they've done a great job: I've used every BlackBerry with a physical QWERTY since the BB10 days and I'm pretty pleased with how the keys depress and spring back into place. It'll take a lot of re-training to get my chubby thumbs weaned off a glass touchscreen, but even a few moments with the KEYone made me feel like I was up to the challenge. Even better, you can slide your fingers across the keyboard to swipe between home-screens and down webpages. Every key also doubles a shortcut for an app or action -- think holding down the L button to launch Lyft -- and I'm seriously thinking of buying a KEYone just for that.That functionality sits nicely on top of BlackBerry's spin on Android, and very little of it has changed since the days of the . Now we're getting to that other thing BlackBerry has pushed for decades. The main draw (beyond the keyboard, natch) is the hardened kernel BlackBerry has worked to bake into Android itself -- spokespeople eagerly call it the most secure Android device in the world, and apps like DTEK should help even lay-people figure out how to make their phones a little safer.Then there's the other stuff needed to play in the big leagues. BlackBerrys have never been great at cameras, but they went surprisingly big with the KEYone. Tucked away in the phone's back is one of Sony's 12-megapixel IMX378 camera sensors, like the one seen in . I didn't get much time to play with the camera in bright daylight, but the photos I did shoot were fairly detailed and well colored, even in low light. The Pixels use a lot of really impressive machine learning to make photos taken with their cameras really pop, so don't expect the KEYone to steal Google's imaging crown. Even though the software driving it still needs some fine-tuning, the KEYone's camera seems leagues ahead of those used in other BlackBerrys.Ultimately, the phone's designers didn't want to build a phone for everyone, or a phone that excelled at everything. They tried that once with , and you probably remember how that went. (Quick reminder: it was mostly just OK). This new-found focus is both refreshing and intelligent. BlackBerry Mobile openly admits the KEYone is a total niche phone, but considers it an important part of the growing BlackBerry portfolio. Building a strong foundation of phones is how BlackBerry and TCL plan to turn things around, and at least some of the carriers that The KEYone is set to launch in multiple markets in April, and we're hearing that the US is lower on the list than other places. Fair enough. Even so, the company confirmed that, in addition to being sold unlocked for $549, carriers will almost certainly offer the KEYone too. That's good news for you -- you can pay for one by the month -- and even better for BlackBerry. Carrier deals mean more visibility, and they could definitely use it. As I've said, we'll hold off on passing judgment until we get to play with some final hardware, but I feel something for BlackBerry now the company hasn't given in me years: cautious excitement.It's the end of February, which means we're back in Barcelona once again. For the next few days, we'll bringing you coverage of Mobile World Congress 2017 as the news breaks here in Spain. BlackBerry kicks things off with  before the likes of LG, Motorola, Samsung, Sony and many more take the stage at the start of the week. To easily follow all the announcements as they happen, click the link down below.Imagine screaming through deep space, swerving through the wreckage of exploding starships in a high-octane scene plucked straight out of a science fiction movie. Suddenly the universe stops, frozen in time as your body continues to hurl through the void at high speed. Your stomach churns at the realization that it's moving but, somehow, the world around you isn't. That's what happened to me this weekend on  -- a virtual reality roller coaster, available at Six Flags' two California parks, that broke halfway through my ride. Twice. and my personal love of VR, I was looking forward to a smooth ride. My optimism disintegrated when my VR headset froze during one of the ride's first twists. Twice, the view in my Gear VR headset halted for more than a second, leaping forward to "catch up" with the speeding ride vehicle and creating a gap between what my eyes were seeing and the g-forces my body was experiencing. It was nauseating. If everything had gone as intended, I probably would have come away thrilled by a high-speed VR space combat experience that perfectly synced with the roller coaster's track. Instead, I was fighting a headache brought on by simulator sickness.This isn't the typical riding experience, but it's not unprecedented. Park officials told me that most guests are treated to a smooth virtual reality adventure, but certain seats on the ride vehicle have a higher chance of losing synchronization with the track. It's a . Each headset connects to a black box mounted above the seats near the center of the car. On straightaways and loops, this hub can easily reach every rider's , but sometimes, tight twists and inversions can briefly put the roller coaster's steel track between a specific user and the black box, breaking the Bluetooth connection just long enough to stall the simulation.Six Flags' representative told me it was enough of a problem that one of the park's earlier VR roller coasters barred users from using Gear VR headsets in the front row, and the transmitter has since been moved to a location that minimizes the issue. Minimizes, yes, but doesn't eliminate.Perhaps I'm being too harsh. When the virtual reality space battle wasn't frozen, it was breathtaking. It started off by showing me the real world through the Gear VR's passthrough camera before drawing the roller coaster through an augmented reality wormhole to deep space. There, I was more than a passenger; I was a participant, playing a fast-paced action game that tasked me with shooting down alien fighter pilots while being rocketed through the chaos of a massive space battle. I walked away intrigued by the experience, but I was still nauseated. Enough so that every time I thought about riding Galactic Attack again, I felt sick.If you ride Six Flags Discovery Kingdom's Galactic Attack VR roller coaster, you probably won't have the broken, frozen VR experience I endured. Park staff told me it happens only on a few seats at the front of the car, and even then, only rarely. Six Flags maintenance supervisor Charles Laureano claims that most riders don't get sick at all. "The New Revolution Galactic Attack roller coaster is synched precisely with the coaster's drops, twists and turns," he said in a statement. "Because of this, riders are not affected by motion sickness as some might expect when on a VR coaster." Indeed, park staff told me that sitting in the middle and rear seats will offer a more consistent experience, but a potentially nauseating ride shouldn't even be an option -- not even if the chances of failure are low.Theme parks have always been centers of innovation, and virtual reality has the potential to be the next big revolution in ride technology -- but harnessing that potential means accepting responsibility for it. Right now, Six Flags has a VR roller coaster system that sees failure as inevitable. The fact that my broken, stomach-churning VR experience was a known but acceptable issue is, frankly, unacceptable. I'm lucky to have a high-end VR headset at home, but many people will experience virtual reality for the first time on a roller coaster. They deserve to have that first foray into a digital realm be safe, exhilarating and free from Being a Nintendo fan is often an exercise in managing expectations. For years, we've watched the company just . The frustration of seeing a company you like make so many odd decisions can wear you down. Now, Nintendo is about to , and as always, it's far from perfect. For the most loyal Nintendo fans, these imperfections can evoke one of two responses: anger that the company has failed to live up to their expectations, or denial that the company is doing anything wrong at all. That's no way to live. Instead, let's skip the first four stages of grief and embrace the Nintendo Switch's faults with acceptance. This is everything the Nintendo Switch is doing wrong at launch (so far).If you bought a Nintendo Wii, Wii U or any of the company's portable 3DS systems, you had something to play right away.  served as ambassadors to the new consoles, using games as a medium to teach new owners everything they needed to know about their hardware. These were fun, contained experiences that added value to every console sold. The Nintendo Switch has nothing like that. According to early previews, leaks and reports, all a new Switch owner can do  is navigate a few menus, change the user interface's theme and make Nintendo Mii avatars -- and even that meager experience is hidden in the console's settings menu.-like bundled game, at least new buyers would have their old game library to fall back on. Not so with the Nintendo Switch: The hybrid hand-held is the first Nintendo console since the Gamecube that . This may be a necessary limitation due to the Switch's new game format (and, indeed, a standard in this console generation), but it's an absolute bummer nonetheless.A day-one update will give the Switch access to the Nintendo eShop, but you won't find any of the company's classic titles available for purchase. New Switch owners will be able to buy a new  inspired indie racer and all of the digital retail games they could ask for, but Nintendo has confirmed that the hybrid system's Virtual Console offerings If you're planning to buy most of your games digitally, you'd better invest in a microSD card. The Nintendo Switch comes with just 32GB of internal storage, and 6.1GB of that is reserved for the console's operating system. That leaves just 25.9GB of space for games. That's enough to download a couple of the game's launch titles, including  will take up 32GB of storage, outstretching the limits of the Switch's free space. Most Switch owners will either need to expand the console's storage or buy most of their games in cartridge format.The Nintendo Switch is the company's first console to offer online voice chat, but you may have to be physically tethered to the console to use it. The Switch's settings menu offers , and there's no analog jack on any of the console's controllers, either. The tablet portion of the console itself  have an audio jack, but using it from the couch in TV mode would require a very long headphone cable. Nintendo has stated that a companion smartphone app will allow players to access voice chat from a personal device, which could open the door for game and chat audio to be piped over your phone's Bluetooth or audio jack, but that's a potentially complicated solution to an otherwise straightforward problem.The Nintendo Switch is primarily controlled by two detachable, wireless controllers called Joy-cons, and the system comes with a handy controller grip to lock them into for comfortable couch play. That's awesome! Unfortunately, it's impossible to charge the Switch's controllers while using them . The only way to charge the controllers out of the box is to attach them directly to the Switch tablet, making it impossible to play games in TV mode if the batteries are dead. Nintendo will sell a separate, nearly identical controller grip that will charge the Joy-Cons while you play, but it costs an extra $30.In fact, all of the Nintendo Switch's accessories are kind of expensive. An extra pair of Joy-Con controllers costs a $80 for a pair or $50 for just one. If you want an extra TV dock for the study, it'll set you back a steep $90. Even the $70 The Nintendo Switch is going to hit stores with a ton of flaws -- the growing pains of a new console's first year. It will take time for Nintendo to iron out the machine's flaws with software updates, and longer still for the Switch's game library to fill out with enough titles to justify the investment for early adopters. And that's OK. Most of us are fans of products, brands and franchises in , not because we're under the illusion they're perfect. The Switch's failings aren't going to stop me, or thousands of other gamers from picking it up on day one. After all, being a Nintendo fan is . For obvious reasons, the former is still in its plastic wrapping, and will likely remain so for the foreseeable future. I've since put five hours or so into Five hours isn't long enough to really make a substantial call on a game of this size's merits, but I can say a few things with certainty.. I was eight years old at the time, and the Game Boy was my first console. Sure, my elder brothers had a NES and a Genesis, so I'd played games before, but this was I got stuck in the Mysterious Woods for hours. I worked tirelessly to solve the game's riddles and dungeon puzzles. In a pre-internet world, I worked out every one of its secrets alone, and was spirited away by its storytelling. that offered any real difficulty. Since then, linearity and simplicity has been a hallmark of a series that once offered challenge at every corner; a series that once treated you like you were intelligent, rather than holding your hand.  are all fantastic games, but I can probably count on one hand the times I died or was confounded in each. And I'll be the first to admit that, despite playing more than most people, I'm pretty terrible at video games.. I'll probably soon run out of toes, too. I've played through the game's first area, and have just made it to a safe location where the main story looks set to kick off.The first quest you're tasked with involves finding Shrines (a kind of mini-dungeon) to retrieve some items within. Rather than giving you a waypoint, you're told to discover these structures by heading to a good vantage point and surveying the land. Only a couple of these were easy to find -- the others required some exploration and problem solving.I expected the journey to these buildings to be fairly simple. It wasn't. The path to each took me past numerous groups of enemies, some of which were easy to deal with, and others that totally wiped me out, even one-hit-killing me on some occasions. You can't really approach any encounter head-on. You need to use stealth, and powers granted to you as you progress, to have a chance of succeeding. You'll occasionally come across an enemy that you simply don't have the right equipment to defeat, and need to find a path around them.The game also uses its environment to guide you. Several times I came across obstacles I couldn't get past, whether they be weather conditions or giant rivers. Each time, I looked around, hoping to see a building or something of interest to explore. And each time, my exploration uncovered an item or a skill that allowed me to progress.As I said, I've only really played what you could call the game's prologue (or, if you're feeling unkind, tutorial). But this short section of the game already perfectly encapsulates what made the  series so beloved: that sense of a solitary adventure. The sense that, while there is a safe path forward, you will have to use logic (and a fair amount of trial and error) to find it. is an extension of that philosophy. But as I stood atop a mountain in the game's first area, scanning the horizon, I saw my future unfolding. Rich canyons, lands covered in shadow, dense forests, volcanoes, rivers, lakes -- a whole world laid before me, and a sense that everything I could see, I would one day visit. That feeling of impending adventure was so memorable in Skyrim, and it's got me truly excited to throw myself into this game. and other games are easier to draw. There's a big focus on food. Ingredients are everywhere, and you can combine them in various ways to create cooked meals that will not only heal you, but also increase your stamina or make you impervious to extreme temperatures. This mechanic feels totally at place in  when it comes to managing your gear. Weapons and shields degrade with use, and you'll constantly be on the lookout for new ones. Saving your best weapons for the toughest enemies, and switching between them on the fly, is vital.This is a truly beautiful game, but with less than a week to go till launch, it still has problems. First, the good: Load times are very fast. From the Switch's home screen to the main menu is almost instant, while loading up your save typically takes less than 10 seconds. Certain areas like Shrines require a couple of seconds to load in, but typically the experience is a breath of fresh air compared to hard-drive or disc-based gaming. It's worth noting that I'm playing  with a Game Card, rather than loaded onto a microSD. If you plan on downloading the game, load times will vary massively, dependant on how fast the card is. to give firm figures, but after playing for a few hours it seems there's a near-perfect 30 frames-per-second lock. Plugged into my TV, things weren't quite as smooth. The vast majority of gameplay was at 30FPS, but I definitely noticed some frames dropping in forested areas, and a couple of times during busy combat. It's no deal-breaker -- I'd go so far as to say this is even fairly common for modern console titles -- but Nintendo is a company almost unrivalled in polish, and the drops surprised me. Of course, there's a chance we'll get a patch to paper over these issues before long.This doesn't have much to do with the game, but if you were looking forward to sharing beautiful images of your gameplay anytime soon, curb your enthusiasm. The Switch's built-in screenshot tool outputs full-resolution images (1080p when you're docked, 720p in tablet mode) but for some reason they just suck. They're being saved as very lossy JPGs, typically weighing in at between 150KB and 300KB, making them soft and generally nowhere near as pretty as the game itself.There can be no doubt that the Switch's initial lineup is weak. But this is a challenging, engrossing and truly beautiful game. Five hours in, it feels like a contender for the strongest game Nintendo has launched a console with since I'm now going to spend the 160 hours or so before March 3rd attempting to avoid non-essential tasks like sleep and work in favor of more 