entertainment-weekly
Beginning Feb. 17, vote for your favorites each week below and listen to EW Morning Live (8 a.m-10 a.m.) on Sirius XM Radio channel 105 all month to hear the songs  and the heated debate. The winner will be announced Monday, April 17. All products featured were editorially selected. EW.com may receive a percentage of sales for items purchased from these links.Casey Affleck used his acceptance speech for best actor at the Film Independent Spirit Awards to call out the policies of President Donald Trumps administration as abhorrent and un-American. actor finished his speech at Saturdays ceremony by telling the crowd, I just want to say the polices of this administration are abhorrent and they will not last  and theyre really un-American. director Ezra Edelmans mother, activist and Childrens Defense Fund founder Marian Wright Edelman, who called this a time to struggle for the future of the soul of our nation.I know this feels preachy and boring and Im preaching to the choir but Im just lending my little voice to the chorus here, Affleck added. And saying that all of you, [if] you are struggling, youre doing it so, so well and speaking up and Im really proud to be a part of this community for that reason. All products featured were editorially selected. EW.com may receive a percentage of sales for items purchased from these links.Just because theres no open bar at the Dolby Theatre doesnt mean you cant toast throughout the 2017 Academy Awards this weekend.And since the awards show is one of the fanciest events of the year, it would only make sense that the aforementioned toasting have some fancy touches as well. Below, youll find fun Oscars cocktail recipesinspired by each of the nine Best Picture nominees.Youd need to get up pretty early in the morning to stump Amy Adams Louise Banks, who attempts to communicate with aliens in stars Best Actor and Supporting Actress nominees Denzel Washington and Viola Davis  two stars who work great together  and this cocktail includes several equally successful pairings. (Maple syrup and bitters?! Orange and cinnamon?!) is about the first conscientious objector to be awarded the Medal of Honor, so were honoring the conscientious non-drinker at your bash for this one. were hidden because of the color of their skin until their intelligence and skill made it so they could no longer be hidden. Similar to this cocktail, where the alcohol is hidden until it catches up to you.This concoction, created by the Loews Santa Monica Beach Hotel, is so pretty, it practically floats kind of like Mia (Emma Stone) and Sebastian (Ryan Gosling) in Created by Sarah Berman of Drift Fish House & Oyster Bar in Upper Marietta, Georgia, this flavor journey was inspired by that of Saroos in The Roof refers to this mixture as a classic blood and sand cocktail, inspired by the beaches and families of  where he gets awakened from different moments that occur throughout his life. The color of thecocktail is thatof a nights sky and its definitely a pick me up cocktail because of the espresso. All products featured were editorially selected. EW.com may receive a percentage of sales for items purchased from these links.The 32nd annual Film Independent Spirit Awards decided to honor the living on Saturday afternoon, dispensing with the traditional awards show In Memoriam segment to add some irreverence to the ceremony.Hosts John Mulaney and Nick Kroll invited actor Andy Samberg on stage to sing a parody of Pearl Jams Alive to celebrate those members of the Hollywood community who didnt die in 2016. Celebrities cited by Samberg as being still alive  the songs memorable chorus  included Milos Forman, Hailee Steinfeld, Tim Allen, and Matt Damon (a.k.a. Mattie D-Bones). Samberg friend Fred Armisen found his way into the song as well, but he fake died during the track, throwing the  All products featured were editorially selected. EW.com may receive a percentage of sales for items purchased from these links.Not even the President of the United States will be attending this years White House Correspondents Dinner, an annual event that started in 1921. Donald Trump announced over Twitter that hes skippingthe festivities.I will not be attending the White House Correspondents Association Dinner this year, Trumptweeted Saturday. Please wish everyone well and have a great evening! its traditional kick-off party in light of growing tension between the president and journalists.Elsewhere,  of co-sponsoring its own after-party. A spokesperson for Bloomberg, the partys other co-sponsor, told According to reports, CNN and MSNBC are considering bailing onthe event, whereinthe standing president and first lady traditionally mingle with the media. (Calvin Coolidge was the first president to attend, in 1924.)Jeff Mason,president of The White House Correspondents Association, which handles the dinner, released a statement saying the dinner will go on as planned on April 29.The WHCA takes note of President Donald Trumps announcement on Twitter that he does not plan to attend the dinner, which has been and will continue to be a celebration of the First Amendment and the important role played by an independent news media in a healthy republic, he said in part.I will not be attending the White House Correspondents' Association Dinner this year. Please wish everyone well and have a great evening!, BuzzFeed, The Huffington Post, and otheroutlets from attending a press briefing. The move was denounced by many, including the WHCA.The WHCA board is protesting strongly against how todays gaggle is being handled by the White House, Mason said in  on the matter. We encourage the organizations that were allowed in to share the material with others in the press corps who were not. The board will be discussing this further with White House staff.Typically, a comedian hosts the dinnerin which they roast the president, other political figures, and the media. Larry Wilmore, Cecily Strong, Joel McHale, Conan OBrien, Jimmy Kimmel, and Seth Meyers have all hosted in past years. When Meyers hosted in 2011, he savaged Trump, who was in attendance and didnt seem pleased with the jokes. I didnt like his routine. His was too nasty, out of order, Celebrities, comedians, and journalists were quick to respond to Trumps latest announcement. See a sampling below.Maybe Trump isn't planning to be president by April 29th, when the White House correspondence dinner is happeningEmail from a viewer: "PLEASE, please, have Alec Baldwin invited to the White House Correspondents dinner since Trump is not going"I am outraged that Trump wont attend the White House Correspondents' Dinner. Bloody rude and cowardly. Wouldn't be shocked if this is a feint and Trump ends up showing up at the White House dinner in the end.If you'll remember how bad Trump was at the Al Smith Dinner, you'll be grateful he's not attending the White House Correspondents' Dinner. All products featured were editorially selected. EW.com may receive a percentage of sales for items purchased from these links. race  a day before the awards ceremony on Sunday.The Academy announced Saturday ina press release that it is rescinding hisnomination for best sound mixing forviolating campaign regulations.According to The Academy, the Board of Governors determined Russell communicated with his fellow members of the Sound Branch Executive Committee during the nominations phase tomake them aware of his work on the film.This violates official campaign rules, which state contacting Academy members by telephone to promote a film or achievement is expressly forbidden, even if such contact is in the guise of checking to make sure a screener or other mailing was received.The Board of Governors decision to rescind Mr. Russells nomination was made after careful consideration, Academy President Cheryl Boone Isaacs said in a statement. The Academy takes very seriously the Oscars voting process and anything  no matter how well-intentioned  that may undermine the integrity of that process., however, is still in contention inthe category, asGary Summers, Jeffrey J. Haboush, and Mac Ruth are sharing the nomination. All products featured were editorially selected. EW.com may receive a percentage of sales for items purchased from these links. on Saturday with a monologue that took aim at President Donald Trump, White House chief strategist Steve Bannon, and Mel Gibson, who is among the nominees at Sunday nights Oscars.We like to think of these awards as the ones without Mel Gibson, Kroll told the crowd. People wondered, How long would it take Hollywood to forgive someone for anti-Semitic, racist hate speech? The answer? Eight years.Mulaney added, So look out for the 2024 Oscars when the Jean Hersholt humanitarian award goes to Mr. Steve Bannon.came a decade after his career stalled following a 2006 arrest for driving under the influence; during the traffic stop, Gibson was recorded making anti-Semitic remarks. for the so-called alt-right. After Bannon was named to a position in Trumps White House, the Anti-Defamation League released a statement to denounce his hire.It is a sad day when a man who presided over the premier website of the Alt-Right, a loose-knit group of white nationalists and unabashed anti-Semites and racists  is slated to be a senior staff member in the peoples house,' Jonathan A. Greenblatt, ADL CEO, . We call on President-elect Trump to appoint and nominate Americans committed to the well-being of all our countrys people and who exemplify the values of pluralism and tolerance that makes our country great.In addition to Gibson and Bannon, Mulaney and Kroll also took aim at President Trump, noting his administrations recent decision to . Hey, Trump you and Robert Durst are both rich sociopaths from New York real estate empires, said Mulaney. Yet, somehow Robert Durst is more likable.They also channeled Trump when describing 2016s slate of indie films, which Kroll joked were all depressing. Said Mulaney, These films are, to quote the president, Sad, exclamation point.'Before wrapping up, the pair shared some advice for stars at the event who may want to make political points in their speeches. Bear in mind we are on IFC and these are the Spirit Awards, so in terms of impact you could give your speech directly in the camera or you can whisper it to yourself in the bathroom, Mulaney joked.Kroll added, And no, conservatives, were not in a bubble, okay? We are in a tent, filled with fringe artists on a California beach. If this room leaned any further to the left we would literally topple into the Pacific Ocean. All products featured were editorially selected. EW.com may receive a percentage of sales for items purchased from these links. walk to center-stage at the Dolby Theatre Saturday morning to rehearse lines theyll deliver at the Im so excited! says the Oscar-nominated actress, casualin a gray sweater and wearing no makeup, while surveyingthe orchestra seats emblazoned with cardboard name-cards and head-shots of the likes of  co-stars, who at one point playfully strike a dramatic Charlies Angels pose, pretend guns aloft,are among the first to kick off a steady stream of A-listers to breeze in and out of the theater for rehearsals early Saturday. actor saunters onto the stage. Nailing his lines after a few minutes, Johnson pulls out his iPhone and asks a stagehand to snap a photo of him in a celebratory pose with the backdrop of the near-empty theatre. Spotting his own make-shift head-shot affixed to an orchestra seat, the Rock points and says, Oh, there I am!, wearing a sweatshirt and baseball cap turned backwards, snaps a commemorative selfie from the stage; David Oyelowo, with his wife and four kids in tow to watch him rehearse, claps when a winner is announced; Henson is handed an Oscar trophy to simulate presenting but instead pretends to steal it and runs off stage while giggling., in a cropped jacket and clogs, looks around the auditorium and art-deco-inspired stage design and says, Its very glamorous!,otherwise casually dressed in a gray hoodie and a black long coat,slips on a pair of high-heel shoes to practice walking across the Oscar stage. But once she learns her lines and gives out several pretend Oscars, McKinnon is right back in her flats  and out the door.The Academy Awards kicks off live on ABC on Sunday, Feb. 26, with a 7 p.m. ET pre-show and 8:30 p.m. ceremony. See all the Oscar nominees and  All products featured were editorially selected. EW.com may receive a percentage of sales for items purchased from these links., Jon Hamm, Kerry Washington, and many more hit the red carpet in Santa Monica, California on Saturday afternoon All products featured were editorially selected. EW.com may receive a percentage of sales for items purchased from these links.The studio droppeda preview of the song with footage from the film, while the full trackis also available on. I talk with a mouthful, but I couldnt be sweeter, Trainor sings. Yep Im a cutie in my own way, I wont play follow the leader., directed byKelly Asbury, focuses on Smurfette, so its only appropriate that she get her own anthem. Trainor thanked her mom, Kelli Trainor, for helping her write the track in a post on Instagram. Thank you to my mama for helping me write this sassy/powerful song, the singer wrote.She wont admit it but she was by my side supporting me while I wrote it.. Its a song that I love and am very proud of, and I cant wait for the world to finally hear it! Getting to play a small part in the film with my character, SmurfMelody, makes this all the more exciting! So happy to be a part of the Smurfs family!!! All products featured were editorially selected. EW.com may receive a percentage of sales for items purchased from these links.