espn-cric-info

Fortress India has been sacked. Or should that be SOKed? Not since 2012 had India lost a Test at home, and rarely in that stretch of 20 matches had they even been held to a draw. Last time Australia toured India for Tests they were crushed 4-0. They entered this match having lost their past nine Tests in Asia. Not since 2004 and the days of Gilchrist, McGrath and Warne had Australia won a Test in India. Not even Nostradamus could have seen this result coming.

Australia not only beat India, they thrashed them. Humiliated them. On a dry, turning pitch that should have suited India's spinners,  took as many wickets as R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja combined. So many, in fact, that his 12 for 69 were the best figures ever by a visiting spinner in a Test on Indian soil. India were humbled for 105 and 107; never had they scored so few in a home Test loss.

The match was over inside three days, Australia the victors by 333 runs. The series is still alive, of course, but India have much to ponder over the next week, ahead of the Bangalore Test. It would be easy to look at pitch and suggest the toss played a significant role, but that would be unfair to Australia, who outplayed India in all facets of the game, and more than doubled their totals in both innings. In any case, Australia had won all four tosses back in 2013.

No, this a was a victory based on outstanding left-arm spin from O'Keefe, whose accuracy and ability to turn some deliveries but not others made him a constant threat; on a remarkable 109 from Smith in the second innings, which some observers said was the best hundred they had seen; on fielding that was not quite flawless but not far off it. And, yes, on what looked from the outside like a mental capitulation from India's batsmen in both innings. 

This was the 10th home Test of India's summer. It would be natural that they might show signs of fatigue, but there are three more Tests in this series. They must find a way to perk up quickly. If they are searching for positives, at least they have two extra days of recuperation ahead of the second Test. They can take little else from this result, their first loss in a home Test since England prevailed in Kolkata in December 2012.

That too was a win that featured a defining hundred from the visiting captain, on that occasion Alastair Cook. In Pune, Smith's 109 - more than the entire India team scored in either of their innings - helped to ensure Australia's victory. It was his 18th Test hundred, his fifth in consecutive Tests against India, and his first on Indian soil. And, given the pitch and the quality of India's bowlers, surely his best.

He made the most of his luck - dropped three times on the second day - and resumed on the third morning on 59, with Australia's lead already standing at 298. Already enough, the way India batted. But Smith made sure of it, scored freely on both sides of the wicket, using his feet to India's spinners, and forging partnerships of consequence with several men in the middle and lower order. When he was finally lbw trying to pull Jadeja, his job was done.

Some late slogging from Mitchell Starc, who hit three sixes in his 30 off 31 balls, helped lift Australia to 285 and set India 441 for victory. They would have to break the all-time record for the highest successful chase in Test history in order to keep their unbeaten home streak alive. They never looked like getting close. Within six overs they had lost both their openers and both their reviews, and all of their hope.

O'Keefe broke through in his first over when he skidded one on to trap Vijay lbw, and in the next over Nathan Lyon spun one in to strike KL Rahul in line and another lbw was given. Both openers asked for reviews, but neither were successful. It mattered little, for the procession of wickets that followed were all straightforward enough that no reviews would have saved India.

The wicket of Virat Kohli embodied India's uncertainty against O'Keefe: he shouldered arms, confident that the ball would turn away from him, and failed to detect that this one was going on with the arm. Kohli lost his off stump. Ajinkya Rahane followed by driving a catch to cover off O'Keefe, and Ashwin was lbw on review when he pressed forward to O'Keefe and the ball struck pad fractionally before bat.

Wriddhiman Saha came and went, also lbw to an O'Keefe skidder, and straight after tea the last remaining top-six batsman, Cheteshwar Pujara, fell in more or less the same way. India kept playing for turn, O'Keefe kept rapping them in front with straight balls. Of course, that is oversimplifying things: he turned enough deliveries to varying degrees that the straight ones became the danger, when the batsmen expected turn that didn't come.

By this stage, O'Keefe had 12 wickets for the match and a realistic chance of overtaking Ian Botham's 13 as the best bowling by any visiting player in India. Instead, Lyon ran through the remaining three wickets: Jadeja was bowled trying to cut, Ishant Sharma was caught at leg gully, and Jayant Yadav gloved a catch to Matthew Wade to make the result official. A result that nobody saw coming three days earlier.

I don't care about this match. Next matches you will see who is still in kindergarten, it is Australia

Steve o Keefe wd take 50-60 wickets in this series and all the remaining 3 matches wd also end in 2.5 days

C'mon people! Australia was bowled out for less than 100 recently. Things will even out themselves in the next test match. Let's not get carried away here.

now who is mediocre team ? is it BD SL or PK ? entire team cannot score above 110 in their home country .. .. for 2 innings ???? .. Now start blaming ... pitch .... hooooo....

As an Aussie supporter, I'm delighted that Oz has won this test, but it's sad to see that some Indian fans are not giving them their due credit. The Aussies are thorough professionals and should never be underestimated. If we do win this series, will those Indian fans who, like Harbhajan Singh, still insist that India will win three tests, be humble enough to give credit? Somehow, I doubt that.

ICC should take back india's test ranking and test status... as their fsn scolding to BD .. SL ... PK when they loose a test match in foreign tour... This is india or Australiya ??..

Well done Oz  and a good realty check for India - they needed that.  The Indian team 
is by no means a settled combo compared to

Is this match played in india ?  ..... now everyone knows who is minion team. They should start playing with Afghanistan.. UAE..etc

I don't care about this match. Next matches you will see who is still in kindergarten, it is Australia

Steve o Keefe wd take 50-60 wickets in this series and all the remaining 3 matches wd also end in 2.5 days

C'mon people! Australia was bowled out for less than 100 recently. Things will even out themselves in the next test match. Let's not get carried away here.

now who is mediocre team ? is it BD SL or PK ? entire team cannot score above 110 in their home country .. .. for 2 innings ???? .. Now start blaming ... pitch .... hooooo....

As an Aussie supporter, I'm delighted that Oz has won this test, but it's sad to see that some Indian fans are not giving them their due credit. The Aussies are thorough professionals and should never be underestimated. If we do win this series, will those Indian fans who, like Harbhajan Singh, still insist that India will win three tests, be humble enough to give credit? Somehow, I doubt that.

ICC should take back india's test ranking and test status... as their fsn scolding to BD .. SL ... PK when they loose a test match in foreign tour... This is india or Australiya ??..

Well done Oz  and a good realty check for India - they needed that.  The Indian team 
is by no means a settled combo compared to

Is this match played in india ?  ..... now everyone knows who is minion team. They should start playing with Afghanistan.. UAE..etc

'Not even Nostradamus could see this result coming' . nice Brydon lol . India aren't as good as they think.

Australia clearly is a much better team than India. If they win this series they will have won 5 test series in India and 13 in the subcontinent.
Smith has now made 5 consecutive century against India, which is a New record!
Australia Vs India Test records, total tests -91. Drawn test 25. Indian wins 24, Australian wins 41
Australia Vs India Test series Wins in Australia - (Australia 8 - India 0)
India Vs Australia Test series Wins in India - (India 7 -Australia 4)
Note, more Test series have been played in India between the two countries.
ODIs Australia Vs India. Total 121 - (ten incomplete /washed out)
Australia 71wins 40 loses -India 40 wins 71 loses

Really enjoyed the Test match :) India played better in their second innings...# inprovement# 2 runs

CHEESEVANTONDER KINGKOHLI OPTO_PUS - This is just a pitch preparation gone wrong as it is a new venue, still 3-1 to India.

Match finished inside 2.5 days. And Indian fans were calling to take away test status of Bd for losing the test on the 4/5th day. Well this makes India worse, right? Does it mean the test status of India should be taken away? Absolutely not. This things can happen. So Pls comment gently next time.

Although being a bd fan, I can hardly digest India being thrashed this unlikely. Go India, go... Give it back harder and double.

yes, no body should have permanent membership, specially team who cant even playmore than 3 days. LOL

Yes, love to see some humbled pies. You can fly but need to come down to the earth to take some food or fuels?

Where was Ashwin the Great All-rounder? How did the King of the Dustbowl play 2nd fiddle to 3rd choice Australian spinner? India's tactics to produce a raging turner have backfired spectacularly. Well played Australia, world cricket salutes you.

Congratulations australia for putting a great determinated performance but they should not get complacent with this victory and they should not forget all the humiliation they got from last SC tours and let me also tell u India took a risk by providing turning track in order to win series quickly and practice in green top for final but has back fired, so what? , they may not be able to get practice in final test, that's the only thing they may miss but not winning series better than aus last time

Well played Oz a thoroughly deserved win. Bowlers looked to have got their length spot on which is the key to deception, the batsmen seemed trapped and afraid to use their feet. Smith did and it should have cost him his wicket early but his bravery ultimately paid rewards. What are the pitches like at the next venues?

Shane Warne has been slagging of Steve O'Keefe completely in the run up to this test saying he is the weakest link in the Australian bowling attack and that Australia should look to replace him with a leg spinner like Adam Zampa or Mitchell Swepson. What Shane Warne knows about bowling in India can be written on the back of the smallest stamp available nine test matches an average of 43.11 and a strike rate of 81.0, Shane Warne should shut up about his thoughts on Steve O'Keefe. The bottom line is throughout his career Shane Warne was never as impactful in India as a leg spinner or spinner as Steve O'Keefe was in India. Shane Warne was completely wrong in his assessment about Steve O'Keefe and should simply swallow his pride as he was slagging of O'Keefe for several weeks before a ball was bowled. Steve O'Keefe will go onto being more successful in the series in terms of wicket taking than Shane Warne ever was in a series in India, that is going to be hard to stomach for Shane Warne.

One cannot ignore the contribution of the Aussie's spin bowling coach, ex-Indian all-rounder, Sriram had on this victory.  O'Keefe pointed it out in a couple of his interviews, he also had high praise for England's Panesar!  The emergence of O'keefe in this game is good news for Australia.  It will create some friendly competition between Lyon and himself for the number one spinning position.

@DOCROCKER - I am a Kiwi but I enjoyed watching Aus smash India as time and again india prepares awful turning wickets to finish games quickly but this time it backfired and the paper tigers lost at home inside 2.5 days! Lol

Well done Australia! You showed these pretenders how it should be done!! Pathetic display by Team India. Hard to believe that this isn't the same team that beat a powerful England Team recently by 4 - 0. We sadly seem to be back to the bad old days of panic...surely, an Indian team has never been so badly humiliated in India, however common it has been abroad. They are the worst travellers of the major Test playing countries. Sad, pathetic and disappointing. 

So, the result of the Test series...hmm, unless they buck their ideas up quickly, it'll only be a humiliating 4 - 0 Test drubbing in India...hard to see a recovery from this loss, although I'd loved to be proved wrong. Batting and fielding needs to improve dramatically in all quarters before the next Test if they are to have any chance of competing with these Aussies...

Ashwin and Jadeja bowled well in this game but what went against them was starc's 60 in first innings and 150+ lead in second innings. 5 bowler theory will work only if you have a wicket-keeper batsman like Andy flower/gilchrist/Sangakkara or Kallis/Sobers. Saha is a tailender and Ashwin is too late in his career to be transformed into a regular batsman (maybe at the age of 22-23 Ashwin could have been groomed as a batsman).

Yes India are undone. But if were Kumble-Virat Kholi, I would still have Australia surprised next match by doing this: Drop Jayant and Ishant, Rahane. Bring Kuldeep and Chahal and Hardik. India will have two new n hard to pick spin variety. Hardik must be the workhorse bowler.                                                              India XI: 1 Vijay 2 Rahul 3 Pujara 4 Kholi 5 Saha 6 Ashwin 7 Hardik 8 Jadeja 9 Chahal 10 Kuldeep 11 Umesh

Headline should be O'Keefe, Smith crush India in India in three days instead of O'Keefe, Smith crush India in three days...;)

And Warne was calling O'Keefe the weakest bowler all morning on day 2 commentary.........12 for 70...... eat that Warnie!

@DOWNTOWN_CRICFANATIC
My bro, I hope you were connected to those posts related to just finished BD vs Eng, BD vs NZ & BD vs Ind series. I saw a big number of Indian fans praised us & few of them neglected us. You know what, all the fingers aren't of same size. So, you can't hope positive comments always from the fans. Some are naturally haters, but that doesn't mean us to be haters as a counter. Hate always earns hate. It's only love & respect that can give you the same in return. So, as a cricket fan I will always love to love the haters instead of countering them. I can bet, no haters will be available in a near future if fans like you me & others will spread love & respect only.

People, what say?? Anyone talking about Jayant Yadav's role in the eleven?? Is he a mis-fit?? Especially when India already has two bowling all-rounders in Ashwin and Jadeja. No question on his performance, to be fair he performed to his potential. But his role. What is he doing at 9 as batting cushion and bowling gentle off-spinners??? At best he bowls those dollies which even lower order batsman can play liesurely. India needs mystery wicket taking bowler. Chahal or Kuldeep Yadav might have wrecked more damage in Pune. They need to consider Jayant's role seriously. What say?

India needs video watching homework of players.  Murali and Ishant are not a good fit for test.  BCCI needs extensive player search across India.  Also, in IPL players like Kohli and Dhoni should not captain teams as it reveals their game strategy and only works against them in international cricket.

well played aus congrats! India certainly werent good enough so hope they focus and improve and not bother too much about outside babblings they dont matter as most of it is the venom they had been forced to keep it down during the amazing India's run so let them spew it out! Gl InDia always with u

How come a team could rolled out for 105 and 107? Back to back? Smith alone has scored 110 runs. So Smith is equal to total Indian team. No wonders he's scored 1000 runs at 90 average against mediocre Indian attack lol

The problem with the spin friendly wicket is that the toss carries too much weight. Say india batted first, even if starc & hazlewood for 2 or 3 quick wickets, others would play with a calm head knowing the condition would be worse for australia. When australia bats first, indian batsmen know they will bat in the last innings. So they have to score 100 extra runs, the condition is worsening. So they want to play their shots early to get some runs and it becomes difficult on the turning wicket. Pressure of being behind kills good decision making. Once handscomb got a few great catches Keefe and Lyon were relaxed and indians were under tremendous pressure. The best bet is to have great batting. Australia should replace the Marshes and possibly Wade. Ideally they need Voges, may be they can try with Khawja and Maxwell.

If you make pitches like india made for nz and england series belive me starc and hazelwood will destroy india by reverse swing .

India was only good on their own pitches...But now it's going to change...Indians learn how to play good cricket in foreign pitches from Bangladesh and Australia..

1000+ comments?! 
Cant understand why our team is hated so much.. 1 loss and there is showering of hate comments here.. When we were winning matches back to back,where were these 'expert analysers' from our neighbouring countries(mainly)..  Please look into improving your own game and team instead of spending so much time criticising India on their performance in a billateral test series match.. And if you are so genuinely interested in cricket,please do applaud the team when we win the next game. Peace.

Over 1000 comments says it all really! Did somebody say test cricket is dying and boring? I think not. Test cricket is the real winner here. Congratulations Australia on such an emphatic victory. Don't think many were expecting this to happen. Here's to an interesting series to ensue.

Well played Australia. You were the underdogs before the series started. But you proved that you were no match to Indians. Best wishes for the next match !

@RIZWANODAYAR, what? subcontinent teams have always got hammered whenever they  toured foreign, let me remind u India went to aus last time and completed by showing proper technique and let me remind u aus didnot give green tops there but what can Ind do for that and let me remind u Ind have won lords test in a green pitch and drawn a lot of games in sa, NZ and australia and tell me after how many years a foreign team managed to win a game in sc and after how many games aus won a test match in sc, any idea

Credit to Australia. They earned their win, well deserved. India just showed up hoping things will work on their own and taken for granted that Ashwin n Jadeja will win the match for them anyway. Indian batting was fully intoxicated with home success. India needs to look at the role of Jayant Yadav. No fault of his though, he has played well in his chances. But the question is Jayant batting at 9 must be a full blooded bowler not an all-rounder. His bowling is no more than filler. I would either play Karun Nair giving batting cushion or Kuldeep Yadav adding much needed mystery element.

I m a bangladeshi fan and really the greatest fan of Virat. why you indian fan are wanting to change the team! please don't be haters so quickly. This indian team is the best team of the world now. so give some respect please

Kudos to certain friends from across the world who have genuinely come out in support of good cricket.To see some Bangladeshi,sri lankan,pakistani and Indian fans turning down insane opinion of their own countrymen certainly restores some parity.Well done to all such people who support the interests of the game of cricket commonly regardless of the nation.Cricket as a whole needs unity.

If the Australians can adapt and learn from the bad loss in SL and become good enough to beat a good Indian team in 3 days in foreign conditions for them, there is no reason why subcontinental teams cannot learn from decades of bad results in Australian conditions and get better results when touring Australia.

Good luck to India for next test match. I know Indian Team is better than this. From a Bangladeshi fan.

As an Englishman it pains me to write this, but congratulations and well played Australia. Poetic justice given that this was a poor Test match pitch prepared to aid India's supposedly superior spinners; hopefully, that idea has now been consigned to the bin, and the wickets for the reminder of the series will be similar to those seen in the England series: This is only one match and I doubt that  India will perform this poorly again, but this result has certainly set up the series nicely.

thats what happens when a team carrying 3 failures faces a team with 10 able, willing, determined men. (as someone said they thrashed india with only 10 men, below)

@cricloverbd2016 - being Bangladeshi myself, i cannot disagree with your comment, however you are being one sided, other subcontinent fans face a host of comment-abuse from Indian fans as well when their respective team has a bad day. Actually that's the best part. This sub-continental animosity makes following cricket all the more exciting. It gives a way for the fans to directly engage with opponent team followers online. Sometimes it gets ugly, but mostly its healthy. But one thing is for sure, with this sort of performance from India, their own test status will come into question in no time.

I'm Sri Lankan Fan .. when we got slap from SA tour / End your everyone coment Sri Lanka should go 2nd category but all tours was put side country . Aus / Eng / SA always use their home land & fast bowling pitches to wrap all Asian Team & pit is dump but I really happy any of Asian team beat them any conditions. Unfortunately our Asian people not ge together support each other's . I was dream to BAN beat NZ at NZ home ground but BAN fought better than SL & IN when we compost the statistics last tours .

This time I really sad IND lost with huge margin . My wishes to IN need to beat AUS next three matches .

Big Respect to The Aussies on this win. They were given absolutely no chance going in to this series by Indian cricket  legends and public, but have shown when you really put your minds to something, nothing is impossible.Well done, Proteas Supporter.

Australlia are the best test team ever Indias record is poor never won in Australlia South Africa or uae. Be humble guys your allowed to lose to the better team.

@PETER_THE_AVERAGE: "Great win but India will fight back so if Mitch Marsh is not bowling he is a pointless selection"

and they thrashed India with only 10 men!  Unfortunately Mitch Marsh will probably be retained as winning teams are rarely changed.

the bowling lineup for India needs some tweaking like dropping ishant, jayant and only playing 4 regular bowlers, 6 batsman and 1 wk batsman. the bigger problem is the batting. once upon a time India was great at playing spin and we're easily bounced out. now it's the opposite. we can play pace all day and can't judge spin well. look at pujara, he's a walking wicket for a quality off spinner like Lyon. you possibly need Gautam Gambhir in the team to negotiate spin. bring in Parthiv, chahal

Well the same tactic that worked against SA and wasn't deemed necessary against NZ or ENG has backfired here. You can't blame the IND bowlers. If you told your team they needed to aggregate 546 runs across two innings at home to win a test match they would take it every day and twice on Sundays. The fielding was pretty average as well. I hope the remaining tests are played on surfaces more like what the kiwis and poms saw but I'm guessing the IND brains trust will see this as an aberration and the next deck will turn backwards from ball one. I'm happy for SOK. I have a soft spot for left arm orthodox types and the SL kid that freaked in the first test against Oz more or less admitted that him leaving the match injured helped flip it and maybe the series. Who knows if this will be his 'Ray Bright' moment and like some other Aussie finger spinners he will just disappear but if Oz win this series he shouldn't have to ever pay for a drink again (perhaps not a good idea for him though).

This is probably Smithy's best test century yet, as proof of the difficult batting surface.  He is quietly averaging about 60 in test cricket, not an attractive batsman by any means, methodical in his approach and gets the job done!  Something has to be said about the steely character of the man!

When India wins, I very hardly see praising comments from the fans of other countries, specially the fans from the subcontinent. But when India fails, a lot of negative comments start raining! Why so? 
First of all, I'm a Bangladeshi fan. And then, I'm a fan of cricket.  If you are a fan of cricket, how can you forget that cricket is the 2nd religion to a country (India) of more than 1000 million people? Where do you see a jam pack stadium except India in a test match? This country has produced legendary cricketers like Gavaskar, Sachin, S Ganguly, R Dravid, Laxman, Kumble, Dhoni, Kohli & many others who are genuine proven world beaters. Some countries (specially Zim, W Indies, Srilanka, Pakistan) are playing a far way below than they were playing few years back, it's because of the retirement of some of their star cricketers. But India is totally different here. Just 3 bad days, that's all. Please don't be haters. Best wishes for the Indian team. Congrats to Aus.

I want to thank our friendly neighbors for the great interest taken in Indian cricket and the encouragement given to Australian cricket!

The Australian batter were clueless in Srilanka and bowlers were having no idea how to bowel in spin tracks and got hammered, yet they went back to drawing board batters manage to learn handle spin in turning track bowlers learned to use same tactics which tormented there batters against there opponent and came up with really strong show. In contrast sub continent team goes on tour and get hammered in greenish track and they go back again get hammered, no any planning or learning in between tours thus this Australian team deserve admiration for there professionalism.

Finally an interesting news from a test game from indian soil . Indian batsmen scoring centuries in india ,  indian  spinners taking wickets in india and india winning tests in india had been THE MOST BORING news for last three decades.

The toss made a lot of the differences seen in this test match. A very few hours that was bat-able on a beach like surface was on the first day. And india had to bat last inspite of playing beach volley ball.

S.Marsh, M.Marsh and Wade should be dropped after India Series. 
Chris Hartley and Chadd Sayers deserve to play for Australia.

this is what happens when u provide rank turner in order to win series quickly and try to provide green top in the last game for overseas preparation. It has horribly back fired and now the only thing left is to win the series in a better fashion than what Aus did last time at home and that is only possible by providing indian wickets and forget about green tops

Its not a slap on Harabajan's face, Aussies delivered a knock out punch. Very well played Australia, they won exactly like the way I imagined them to

@SUN05:  I don't think anybody in his right mind would mock the players you mentioned though Vijay and Rahane had a poor match. Ashwin is a class act and he bagged 7 wickets here and could have got 10 or more with better catching from the close in fielders. He is also India's opening bowler now with the new ball and it appears team management decided to have him open the bowling even before the match started. The problem India has is their almost non existent middle and lower order batting. Their second new ball bowler Sharma had very little to do in this match and even the third spinner did not do much. A couple of specialist batsmen would have helped instead. Remember this was really an innings defeat for India who scored less than 260 runs in both their innings combined.

After defeat of BD in NZ, some Indian fans comments like this " Wi, wi, wi, I am in moon now" " Can any one help me to stop my laugh" etc. Dear aggressive Indian fans, I comment at that time that bad time may come to anyone's case, so pls. do not show disgrace to others. Now bad day has come to yours case but we are not laughing.

I believe the remaining three games wd end very early than this game probably the remaining three tests wd end in two days with 350 to 400 run and Ings defeats to ind for all three games and indian whitewash by Australia. I also believe ind wd not even make 100 runs in both the Ings of Bangalore test

Looking closely at India, I think the batting line up is fickle with the tail starting at 5. Losing 7 wickets for 11 runs in the first innings and marginally improving to 30 runs for the last 7 wickets in the second innings. Numbers 6-11 contributed only 12 runs in the first innings and 21 in the second. Rahane looks out of sorts, hardly the player who scored that brilliant hundred at the MCG just a couple of years ago. The selection is baffling to say the least. If they had decided to open the bowling with Ashwin in both innings there was no need for Sharma in the team at all. Even J.Yadav didn't bowl much and was not very threatening when he did. They could have played a couple of specialist batsmen instead. Wonder what Nair must be thinking watching all this.

didnt think it was possible to have such a long home summer, its not really going to help the performance overseas improve, might even make india lazy

Smith captaincy also changed he never sets ultra aggressive fields always sets in and out fields never give easy boundaries in this match good to see smith learning from his mistakes

@Rajesh_India_1990
"King" Kohli = 13 runs in 2 innings
Team India = 212 runs in the match
Lowest test score by India in a home defeat :)
Steve Smith scores more in 1 innings than Team India can manage in either innings; therefore, 11 Indians are lesser than 1 Steve Smith! FACT!!!

Yes, please get Wisden to record all these glorious (and not so inglorious feats by India) on that page that you were boasting about a few days ago...

@Gaurav Sethi
accept the fact that this loss has been a heart breaker for you! 
c'mon accept the FACT that there is not much either YOU or your Team can do against the might of the Australians!

This pitch in no way was an unplayable one as Smith rightly showed in his gritty second innings it was about hanging on and playing smart unfortunately Indian batsmen chose glory over sensibility and ended with many worsts. India may bounce back beat Aus in Blore but they need to bring in some sense into their batting. As Warne and Gavaskar rightly said sometimes the art of spinning is not to spin the ball Okeefe did that well Jadeja gave more revs to ball and it kept beating the batsmen who were happy to leave them. None of the Indian batsmen looked like they were keen on digging deep and playing a long innings many shots played by Indian batsmen raised questions if they know what the situation is. Jinx stands at crease and lofts ball straight into hands Kohli simply flashes at a ball outside off stump.Basically it was all about application and playing long innings which none of the Indian batsmen seemed interested in

What an awful pitch! The ICC should sanction such boards and curators. What an awful sight seeing it turn square on day 1. Well done Australia, it was made to happen to you but you fought hard and ensured it came back to haunt the hosts on a rank turner!

I respect the gentleman Sanjay manjrekar who states no excuses and his bewilderment how Australlia beat India so easily. Even kholi stated no excuses, yet indian fans seem to have many i predicted series win for Australlia.

Well, now they can't even take a stand in their own home ground. A three days test match can become a reality. Real test match is a bit different than an IPL circus. Hope to see a better competition next.

Aussie played really well and the best team won. Ind performed very poor didn't expect they will be all out for  105 and 107. Well I hope we will fight better for next match and maintain our no 1 status.

India has lost only one match and we all are after Indian team. This time around law of averages has prevailed nothing else. Things would drastically change from second test on-wards. But one thing I could sense that is over reliance on Virat. But one thing needs to be believed that this loss would mature India than numerous wins.
When the going gets tough the tough gets going...:)

This win has set up the series nicely!  Based on recent history, the Indian batsmen have proven that they are just as vulnerable on rank turners.  I suspect India will come back hard in the second test but from a psychological standpoint, Australia has to be brimming with confidence!  There is a lot of cricket yet to be played so it is still anybody's series to win!

This loss is by far the most humiliating, disgraceful, shameless, atrocious, painful  defeat to team india ever as far i remember. The most embarrassing part was our batting no batsman apply themselves, only pujara 1st inning wicket was only wicket which australia earn, other was gifted by india that show these batsman
can't play even in the spinning track let alone fast, bouncy, green top.  This massacre by australia  is equivalent to 2  4- 0 whitewash.
I think ashwin,vijay are very tired, they should take rest & prepare for ipl. Rahul vai focus on short format only, Rahane  not good enough player to 
play spin. jayant was very poor. Only jadeja, umesh, kohli were giving their 100% other were sheepy. I think we need  kuldeep, shreyes, karun,bhuvi,mukund 
deserve chance. Already loss our status by this  demeaning defeat. Rahul, Vijay, Rahane, jayant, & ashwin deserve axe for this unbeleivable loss. Overconfidence has left them down massivly & rightly got gobsmacked.

A. Mukund dropped the Test match for India not once but twice...for those who are clamoring for his inclusion in the Test side!
Kohli has a major headache with Rahane, he has been getting opportunities based on his past performances, but his current form is woeful! An odd century will not resurrect it.

Twelve wickets were stolen by O'Thief and margin was 333, reminding all of us that there are three tests still left.  SOK has created enough doubt in the minds of Indian batsmen by bowling well disguised straighter ones which will play its role if India opt for flatter ones now on-wards. If he can get India's best batsmen, Kohli, with a straighter one then rest of them are certainly more vulnerable. Furthermore, if tracks are flatter then the effectiveness of Ash/Jaddu will go down further. I am sure Aussies will remained unchanged for the 2nd test and hope that Renshaw will not have upset stomach this time. On the other hand India have to get rid of Vjay, Rahane, Ishant, Saha at least and for that they can take a leaf from the book of Aussies who themselves had to do wholesale changes after that spectacular collapse against SA and now look a different power. India also need to have a left arm leg spinner in place of Ishant.

Whatever the pitch condition, IND should not get out 100 odd runs twice, it becomes more interesting considering it is at home. But IND also have lot of quality in their batting and moderate in bowling. Indian spinners will surely be threat in this series. Aussies shouldn't also be over confident. I think their batting and bowling is above average. Reality is they prepared well and executed well in the match. But this won't be in the entire series. And lastly the Kohli factor, you just cannot keep him quiet longer. An exciting series is approaching. From a BD fan.

More than the defeat it's the manner how Indian gave up without a fight. India looked invincible but we ignored the fact that they have been playing on rank Turner, so  We will see more of the same performance from India once they travel oversees.

Thanks! Thank you very much; but sorry, we don't have any return gifts to give. May be next time. OK?

India way over hyped as team. After this shambles and i guess the first real test they have failed misrably. I gues they achieved one thing and that is  you cant know call them backyard bullies any more. This serious will be intresting on many fronts. Aussies well done.

India lost due to failure in batting. Today there were four dropped catches including 3 off smith. He is very very lucky to get a century.

Lot of people here ask not to write India off as it's just one bad game. OK, we will write them off after Bangalore game and Ranchi game and Dharamshala game. OK?

Overconfidence hubris or just sheer good luck for the aussies having first bat and scoreboard pressure on this bunsen Australia have won. India have hopefully realised their batting is woeful and save Kohli/the 3 spinner 'allrounders' most of the england games would have gone the other way. Most important we have a series on. So rather than try and one up each other with comments lets rejoice that there is an element of unpredicatabilty in this subcontinent tour now!! India would always win on the wear them down tracks against the likes of england but Aus have the x factor of warner at the top which gives them a great chance of going 2 up should a pitch like that be presented and another bat first situation. With Starc in the ranks aswell this makes adds an extra intrigue and imo evens things up of not gives Aus the edge no matter what. I am under no illsuion that this India side is not great but i do feel Kohli is and that alone might prove to be good enough. Time to proove it!!

Wow! One bad test match and we find record no of comments frm both Indian and other country fans cursing and mocking Indian players especially Vijay, Rahane and Ashwin. Why their predecessors were better than them or other countries have superior players? No right. So shut up and appreciate Aus who played better cricket in this test.

O runs 0 wickets contribution of our so called great fast bowler ishant in dis match, i don't know when our selectors wil get rid of ishant from indian cricket. 
There r much better fast bowlers like siraj,thakur,nathu,thampi,avesh khan etc than ishant in domestic circuit.
Instead of selecting ishant in dis match on dis type of pitch we could hav easily played an extra batsman karun nair & who knows result could hav been different.

Great win and superb performance all round. A lot of preparation has been done for this series and it paid off handsomely.  Even with Mitchell Marsh in the team who never bowled a ball. One more win and the series is practically over.

India hardly had any fast bowlers & OZ attack was lead by Lindwall. So, you can guess, how the pitch looked! It took spin from the start.  35 of the 39 wickets fell to slow bowlers. 

India's deadly original spin-trio of Ghulam Ahmed, Subhash Gupte & Vinoo  Mankad  were ready; Got 18 of the 19 OZ sticks to fall.

It was a low scoring match. The main difference between today's & then was the catching. Catching of OZ was a tad 'lower'! India's was far better. 

One bad performance and all these trolls are in a full flow but they forget that India we have a 17 match unbeaten record which was unfortunately broken by Aussies but I am sure that we will work out d method of o Keefe and will win d series 3-1 Aussies should stop gloating out here cause this is just 1 victory so hold it horses

This was not just a defeat. This was psychological warfare. The next match will determine the true character of the Indian team. They'll have to spend the next couple days studying O'keefe and Lyon.

When I switched on the TV on first day morning,I got irritated to see Ishant Sharma was running to bowl and I felt that India would be in trouble.I do not know what special talent he has.He can not bowl ,can not bat and can not field.But every captain thinks that he could do something and almost every time he does nothing.How can we win a match by facing the mighty aussies with only 10 players?

Karun  Nair deserves a chance next...rest Rahane jayant yadav..I always feel jadeja is over hyped all rounder???!!! .. May be amit mishra or yuzvendra chahal can bring some change...high time Ishant sharma should retire from all forms of cricket...he does not fit in the squad any more...even IPL teams are not interested in him...Rahul along with Rohit sharma looks best opening pair with karun  nair in the middle.. Saha needs to step up soon...looking at history of Indian cricket I feel O'Keefe will feel the might of Indian batsmen in next matches...remember what happened to Shoib akhtar and ajanta mendis after the debuts against India...they were treated mercilessly by Sachin and co....best of luck next time

It is a shame the way India lost miserably within 3days on their home ground. I believe too much ego hampered the Indians. They must have thought they would win comfortably. Australia was the better side, no doubt.

Few things I couldn't forget in my life. 2 years back was in India for conference , was seeing an ad in star "we won't give it back, won't give it back" during WC. What's that hype? Really funny, Australia took it it without any toil ha ha. Now few comms pre series "wait till you meet ind" 4-0" whitewash" innings defeat" wait you overrated Aussies " ind will smash you innings defeat" smith will dance against Ashwin/ Jaddu" wait and wait...... Waited guys I know who's better team. Stop gloating and be humble enough.

I dont know yet how the pitch for the next match will be. But if it is similar to this one or nearly similar i prefer Nair as an extra batsman instead of ishant. He dont have any role in pitch like this. Because 3 spinner is enough to bowl.

Steve O'Keefe spun the ball just enough to trouble batsmen. His overall figures in this match are beyond compare. He was very well supported by Gary, Nathan Lyon.  Nice cameo by Mitch Starc shifted the momentum in Australian favour. Indian bowlers should also try to contribute by bat in remaining matches. Ravindra Jadeja was also spinning the ball but the amount of spin imparted to ball was far more. Why no-one asked Ravindra Jadeja to pitch the ball on middle-leg, so that extra spin could trouble the batsman? Why no-one asked Ravindra Jadeja to bowl over the wicket to right handers for few overs?  I hope Indian skipper gleaned few things from this match. Next test match is very crucial, we expect Indian batsman to come out of shell and play some strokes.

If anyone wants to know what Boomerang  means, he should watch this game. This game will do more damage to the cocky Indian XI than most people imagine. Just like how visiting batters always second-guessed every other move they made, this will too. Only, it will be on the minds of Indian batsmen. AUS is not losing this series.

Indian skipper said after match "Lot of things are result oriented." This is probably the right statement to give on team combination because if the team had drawn or won the match, then everyone would be singing hymn for Indian players. The most dis-appointing feature of Indian batting in this match was no intent to attack the bowlers. Ravindra Jadeja, Lokesh Rahul showed some intent to play aggressive shots in first innings, remaining batsmen just waited for dismissal in both innings. Aussie skipper cashed on chances provided by Indian fielders. If you look closely the technique of Steve Smith in this match, his left foot was never stationary. He was in search of runs, left foot moved forward or sometimes backward allowing him to negotiate spin better. Steve Smith adapted to situation very well. Also credit should be given to Australian cricket administration for pre-tour activities like playing in Dubai, involving Madhusudan Panesar, Sridharan Sriram.

One poor performance after a long long time and so much of criticism. Bet Kohli and company will do much better in the next matches. Congratulations to Australia for a superb performance though. From a subcontinent teams perspective, Pakistan were thrashed in NZ and Australia without any fight except one innings by Pakistan. SL were absolutely thrashed in both tests and ODI's in SA without an iota of fight and have been losing everywhere generally. Bangladesh ofcourse are learning their trade. India has bee sublime at home and were pretty good in all away tours before the home season begin (NZ, SA,Eng, Aus), albeit without winning much. Their should be no doubt that they are the best team across formats from sub continent and only BD has been consistent in ODI's. So let's stop this tirade against Indian cricket team owing to one failure and wait for the series to get over.

The list of opening partnerships between the two starting from the most recent between 2015 and now are:

The only two century partnerships in this period were between Dhawan and Vijay of 283 at Fatullah and 152 between Parthiv and Rahul at Chennai during the England series.

First of all credit were its due.. Well played Aussies ... To outplay India on a rank turner is some effort... Some may call it fluke and all but to dismiss India for 100 or something both innings and winning by 333 runs on such a pitch is a huge win in any era that too coming against an all conquering Indian side in home condition.. This can certainly be compared with  India's win at Kolkata 2001 against an all conquering Aussie side... But having said that i am not sure if  Aussies could maintain the same pressure on India for rest of the tour.. But any day this is a golden feather for Australian cricket considering their young and inexperienced side who was considered by all to go down 4-0. I think it will still be a moral victory for Aussies to lose 3-1 from here considering their horrible record in Asian conditions... Kudos for Smith and his boys .. Expecting Indian to give them reality check in coming days but now is the time we give credit where it is due being a cricket lover.

@ cricfan24930413 , I can understand it hurts. Things are judged by what really happened not by some one's wishful thinking. Australia had so much reparation prior to the SL series even getting Murali into their net which angered the SL admin. So you can't say they were unprepared. Be in Sri Lanka or in Australia we have won two back to back series & that what the record says & it is a good record to hold until the next series.

@ Herath-UK - accepted IND team and fans are a bit down today and it has been a heavy defeat. However by no means that makes SL the team to beat overnight! Besides T20 and that one home series against AUS I dont think you guys have won much else recently. BD tour is a tricky one for your team, followed later by IND who beat you guys last time they toured there for tests if I remember right. So one step ate a time my friend! Also remember this series has 3 matches still to go!

@DECCAN_EXPRESS, im sri lankan . Kohli has butchered us many times over . So im not biased in HIS favour at all , but to say that kohli always fails in important matches is simply prepostorous. He's a legend . Are you saying that the england tests werent important ?

One can understand there are a lot of IND baiters who must be overjoyed today, but my friends hold your horses and keep your comments somewhere in the realms of reality (though I doubt that will happen looking at the quality of posts seen here). Agreed it was a heavy and unexpected defeat for IND but to question their test credentials based on one match is plain ridiculous! I am sure your own teams have felt their punch in the past and will continue to do so. Dont worry about that!

Gaurav sethi south Africa mediocre? I don't think you follow cricket outside India. South Africa is easily best test team of this decade.

"Indians play spin better". May have been true when there was the embarrassment of riches in domestic cricket in the 60s and 70s. Besides Bedi, Prasanna, Chandra, Venkat, we had Shivalkar, Goel, VV Kumar, Mumtaz Hussain, Parsanna. I'm sure I didn't get all the names in. And no IPL and ODIs. Now, they are really bad at dealing with spin. England exposed it with Monty and Swann. Tentative, waiting for the ball to do its magic. Not getting to the pitch.  Lyon and O'Keefe looked more likely to get a ball every wicket than Ashwin and Jadeja. Prepare a turner and India dies faster than the opposition.

@ Nagesh : No you are wrong. Despite flat roads in Aus you guys lost 0-2. What if the pitches were fast & bouncy? (Traditional Aus pitch). 0-4 right? Aus has declared 6 times in that series. Your flat bully Kohli would have been scoring 10,15,0,30,21 had been bouncy track. Smith is miles miles ahead of Kohli . Give credit or move on and get ready for IPL circus.

Accept the defeat and bounce back my fellow IND. Don't loss because of Aussie learned from AUS vs SL. In SL Starc took same as Herath. Pitch was too one sided and set to Ashwin where IND didn't see O'Keefe factor.

Well, what do you expect from Indian think tank? They thought to sink Aus with the rank turner but the world now know what is the outcome. Should India opted to play with the similar turner pitch against Bangladesh the result would have been different as well, who knows? More nerve wrecking moments are on the way, that for sure.

Lot of our neighbors, particularly SL and BD fans are so happy with this result as they could not do the same...BD fans like EMON_DAS, India won 16 matches on the trot among an undefeated streak of 19 since the last win. When you win that many in your entire test match history, you can talk about India's test status. BD is a decent limited overs side, and an improving test side, but fans like you seem to think you are some all-time Test XI and invite trolling from others. SL friends - SL is good at home, but India have been better in the last few years. Let us acknowledge that. 1 loss out of 20 matches in 2 years! Back to the match - I don't understand this pitch. Spoiled India's home win reputation further as being spin track bullies when most pitches this home season were very reasonable and not like this sand pitch. We should play on regular decks that offer turn day 3 onwards, that's when we are at our best.

Pressure mounting on IND selection committee. I won't be surprised, if they announce something like "Vijay, Rahul, Rahane and Saha rested due to their injuries in the first test". Obviously they try to save these failure players career until another series with a weaker team.  This is the worst selection committee in decades which is ignoring huge domestic talent. Look at the second innings, how Vijay faced 23 balls. He gave dozen chances and finally got out. He simply does not know how to play spin. As I said earlier, Virat always fail in important matches.

Well played Australia.....  But don't get on the 9th clouds soon......  Few month back same team lost by innings and 80 runs in ur own den against SA.......   getting all-out for 80 & 160 odd......  India is very good side to bounce back & I am sure India taking series.....  Good luck both side for great series.....

Great win but India will fight back so if Mitch Marsh is not bowling he is a pointless selection. Nice innings from Smith, he was lucky but it was a great captains innings.

India have made more than 400 hundred in Australia against Australia multiple times even though they lost. Kohli made 4 hundreds so you can't say Indian batsmen play only on flat tracks. It means Australia has only flat tracks??

The Indian team management and players will find the Aussies to be a very different opponent, compared to the pommies. 

The Australians rebuild quickly, have exceptional self belief, at an individual and team level (Very few English style batting collapses). Their spirit is good for the game of Cricket. 

The Indian batsmen will find the Australian spinners to be a lot more compelling than the remarkably ordinary Ali & Rashid combo. 

This Indian team, despite this loss is absolutely world class, I will bet on Kholi and guys to even the series. 

ICC should really think about India test status losing 7 wickets for 11 runs is just ridiculous Ireland and Hong Kong would be better test team than this overconfidence Indian team

Bring back Shekhar Dhawan and Raina or Rohit if he is injury free. Enough of Saha. Let KL Rahul do keeping.

Any surprise there? I'm not guys. These home heroes can play only if the pitches are flat like roads. Any swing/seam/pace/bounce/spin that's it they will surrender. So hopefully these bullies would prepare flat road in next test. If so Aus will literally thrash ind bowlers. I back Aus from Japan ha ha. 4-0 has become now 3-1 later next week 2-2 then? 1-3?? Ha ha. Keep calm and respect the oppositions folks. I'll be happy if Australia wins this series. Oh boy Smith you are next Bradman buddy. You will rule the world :;-)

Herath-UK - NO you are wrong.. in almost all interviews reg Indian tour Smith has said how much their team learnt from the SL series about how to play in sub continent, how  to tackle spin, etc. SOK had sessions with Herath, Vettori, Sriram about bowling on dry pitches.. All of this paid off. This victory is actually a result of their learning from SL tour. pretty sure if Aus had toured SL again now, they would win it hands down. SL are by no means the team to beat. You can say that SL tour was a good preparation for Aus for their tour to India.

@GAURAV SETHI
You are a bit loose, I'd say SA are without any doubt the best test nation in the last 8 years.

@WORSTSIDE Never said that the Australian team that lost to SA in Hobart is the same that thrashed India inside 3 days in Pune.Australia removed the deadwood & won the dead rubber D/N Adelaide Test against SA to save face and make the series scoreline a more respectable 1-2.My point was India too can make a comeback and don't be surprised if they actually pay Australia back with vengeance in the remaining 3 Tests.However,do not see India remove the deadwood(Rahane & Ishant) while selecting the XI for Bangalore.India beat SA in Kolkata in 2009-10 thanks to Harbhajan's brilliance after losing by an innings in in Nagpur.Have been quite effusive in praise as a neutral fan about Australia's unbeaten record in a Test series in SA since the readmission of the Proteas to international cricket in 1991.Have used this unbeaten record of the Aussies in SA to convey reality checks to tomtomming SA fans,who keep clamoring of how great their team has been basis their stellar away Test series record.

I can't believe such a poor performance by India at home. India has fallen into its own trap - rank turner. Hats off to okeefe

Some of the comments seeking removal of Rahane and Murali Vijay shows the short-memory which some fans possess. Didn't Rahane win a test at Lords' (On one of the greenest wickets) and has a scored runs everywhere? Hasn't Vijay been an exceptional opener across the world for this side, always seeing off the new ball and scoring big hundreds in England, Australia and Sri Lanka? In fact, he scored a hundred in the last test, two in England series. 

Karun Nair, did very well in his 3rd test, but with all due respect, that means nothing in comparison to going abroad and doing well in trying conditions, esp. when more reputed players were floundering around them. Let's hold our horses, this is the side which has done well over the last two years and let's back them to deliver.

From India's perspective-  Ashwin and Jadeja  look jaded with 10 tests of bowling.A break against Bangladesh would have done them a world of good.A rank turner in Bangalore could help if and only if India bat first and put up a  350+ score .Psyche of Indians has been hurt more with this defeat than morale of Australia being up and can the hosts regroup to win the series ? Father time has the answer and as of now,only father time has the answer.

over scrutiny really. I mean this Indian team hasn't lost anything. Last time they lost at Halle due to bad umpiring, they followed with 16 wins. Any team who wins that many bound to loose one here and there.  Australia has only 1 decent batsmen in this Aussie team

Well done Aussies! You showed the Indians how to bat, bowl & field in this match! Reality strikes down hard, and its hit India where it hurts the most - in the home ground. 
India didnt just lose, they got buried, thanks to their over-confidence. A cruel awakening and deservedly so. 
The brain freeze of the Indian batsmen in the first innings cannot be excused no matter the defense they build around it. How crucial was Starc's cameo in the end?! 2 wrong reviews taken within 6 overs of the 2nd innings! That's how desperate India were. 
Yes Eng got plummeted but they didnt have the bowlers to come strong against the Indian batting & with all due respects to Bangladesh's growth in cricket, they are still teens amongst the grown-ups of the cricketing fraternity. Having these two series as the yardstick wasnt going to do justice to Ind cricket, and the very first match post these series, Ind gets beaten black & blue!
Well played O'Keefe, Smith & the Oz team, Deserving winners!

Just a month ago Aussie loose to mediocre south Africa in their own den. I don't rate Australia. They are as ordinary as south africa

@Hereth turn it up SL hasn't sniffed a test series win in Oz. What's with all the Ashwin bagging, he went quite well and he also got a century just like Smithy.

Behind_the_ bowlers _arm Firstly, I wish you would change your pen name because it is so painful replying to you. Secondly, I find your last comment so much to the point .

Oh what a performance by the mighty Australia. Our team should learn from Aus how to play spin. This is absolute rubbish and ridiculous from India. Rank turners backfired us. No excuses or whatsoever we are to be blamed. I can see few passengers in our team, Rahane, Ishant, Saha what is their role? Good for nothing. Paid 10 lakhs per test lol. Well played Aus I hate to say now it looks you can win this series 2-1 or 3-0. Harbhajan and Ganguly should zip their mouths. It's really disgusting guys.

One thing cricket is unpredictable game. Losing one test doesn't means India is bad team. India and Australia both teams have good players. Team performance is evaluated based on statistics- no of matches played in a year and no of win out of them. So instead of abusing team India we should rather say common India and well played team Australia.

I fear the wrong lesson will be learnt by the Indian team after this heavy virtual innings defeat (the grand total of India's two innings was less than the Aus first innings only).

The only changes I anticipate in the next test are to the bowling line up, most probably Jayant Yadav and possibly Ishant too.

The problem is that it was not the bowling at fault in this match but the much vaunted batting. It is certain, not one of the batters will lose their spot after this defeat and probably they will sacrifice a bowler and cushion the batting with a sixth batsman.

Not sure if that is the right way to go when we have more talented youngsters waiting for a batting slot than a bowling one.

I think India lost this match with atrocious batting in their first innings and equally abominable catching in the Aussie second innings. None of the batsmen were out on totally unplayable deliveries in the first innings. Kohli was bound to fail as the law of averages says. And one can ignore his failure in this match considering the rich vein of form he is in. But one cannot ignore the consistent inconsistency from the likes of Vijay, Rahul and Rahane. I was particularly disappointed with the gory shot that Rahul played after all the hard work in the first innings.That, to me, was the turning point of the match. After that, everyone else fell like nine pins. This collapse once again reiterates my belief that the chinks in Indian batting armor were camouflaged in the past series due to the stupendous form of Kohli and Pujara. India has been playing with only 5 batsmen all through but they were not tested. It is good that they will now have to think about their strategy going forward.

After Cook and Khan I think the mantle of best Test batsman goes to Smith. He played a great innings on an impossible pitch. However this is only 1 match and the series is still wide open, hopefully India will bounce back strong after this, the problem is they dont have their greatest strength anymore which is spin.

I read all this comments that India is down and out of the series I dare say that these people are just jumping the fun. India will still win the series 2-1 if not 3-1.

It wasn't any great bowling it was just poor batting by our team and gift there wickets, they should have played on the merits rather then attacking spinners.

Now the team to beat in the SC is Sri Lanka. Both India & Pak losing & 
Sri Lanka winning two series at home & in Australia, keep SC flag still flying high.Of course India have opportunity to turn the tide back in the next three Tests.

Congratulation to Smith & brave Aussies on a over whelming win over India. It was a gutless & pathetic batting by an over confident India in both the innings. This was on the same pitch where the Australian bats had 3x 50's in the first innings & a century in the second. Ashwin & jadeja rated as the Top 2 bowlers in the world but were humiliated when they forgot the art of Wkt. taking which was aptly demonstrated by O'Keefe! Aussies showed India how to take great catches. Smith showed Kohli & rest of the Indian batsmen how to build an innings & score century on such a track. In short the Aussie outplayed India in every department of the game. Indian batting + catching looked like that of "Minnows"! Kumble & Kohli have to stop giving excuses. Both teams played on the same track where India got out twice for just over 100 while Aussies scored over 250 runs in each innings! This one sided whipping of India on their home turf never happened before! Wake up Kohli & Team India!

Remarkable performance by Australia. Unforgettable performance by India. In fact they should never forget what happened in this test match. Needs deep introspection on how they can be so easily and so thoroughly outclassed. Well done Australia.

HA HA HA. Got buried in the grave they have dig for others.Rank turners from first bowl on day 1, foot marks from day 1. And Indian fans were proud of his team. They were like " This is home advantage. We can make whatever pitch we want. Do you guys think this team is better than the team of 2000's since you have so many records - best unbeaten record, most consecutive wins. India is simply trying to take advantage of the fact that rest of the world donot have a quality spinner and batsmen are susceptible to spin. If Ashwin and Jadeja are world class, then O'keiff  surely has to be among one of the best ever. After all, he is the reason for one of the worst home losses of this greatest indian team of all time(as per their fans). Lets put it this way, he surely can be regarded as world class if he is allowed to play in India only. Then definitely he can race to 200 wickets in no time and he will be one of the best. Right?

Must say I haven't been so surprised about a Test result since Australia beat England 5-0 in 2013/14.
The pitch wasn't up to Test standard and India are doing themselves and world cricket no favours with these underprepared surfaces. They have some great batsmen and some decent fast bowlers so should present surfaces that give everyone a chance to show their skills.
In the meantime, well done Australia. Same again next match please

Each wicket in the world has different characteristics .It is not confined to just green tops or brown tops. The more important factors are the bounce it provides and the overhead weather conditions.What an intelligent bowler or coach must determine with the highest priority is the ideal length to bowl at immediately upon starting to bowl.The key factor as Prasanna ,an all time great spinner who was an artist in flight and MaGrath ,a 6'4 fast medium bowler is that one must bowl that length on each unique wicket by which it will hit the top of the stumps.If one is bowling in the corridor outside off and middle and off, the slip gully and short leg catchers must be outstanding if getting wickets is the highest priority opposed to restricting the run scoring. The other factor to consider is to contour your bowling to the way the opposing batsmen play ,with particular importance to their strong suits in batting.Like being good against the short or back of length ball or the front foot play. Whether the batting is good against pace or spin and such points. Now a bowler has to vary his line and length by altering his line at the point of delivery to have an element of surprise. Now good bowler has his typical abilities like being ability accurately  in length . In other words the bowler should be able to get the so called 'dip' by just bowling shorter of the popping crease and so on. It is a shame that the great Gavaskar , Harbhajan and Ganguly have not explained why India lost in Poona other than using clitched expressions to ensure that they are not sacked by their employers. Indian team catching was very bad and their bowlers spun the ball extravagantly ,On a turnung wicket that is useless. I wish Kumble reads what I have written even if he is intelligent and analytical.

M.Clarke, Panesar, Herath, now O'Keefe. Left arm orthodox spinners certainly seem to be India's Achilles' heel.

After facing the innocuous Moeen Ali and Adil Rashid from England, the Indian batsmen were not mentally prepared to deal with quality spinners on a turning track. They appeared indecisive and shell shocked. Their think tank has to work urgently to get them ready for the second test or it could be more of the same. The margin of defeat rather than the loss itself is the most disturbing factor.

Had India offered that rank turner to BD, they would have lost in 3 days too. Where are my beloved Indian fans who constantly question BD's Test status....Seems they have gone into long hibernation! ICC should think seriously abt India's Test status.

Came back to bite the hand..This was a classic fall in the hole that was dug for the opponent scenario. C"mon cricketing world knows dust bowls are prepared to show how dominant the home side is but to prepare a pitch that turned square from over number three was definitely for the mouse that eventually played into the hands and got the better of cat.

I listened to this match on the radio, truly old school, and it lacked nothing, despite the lack of visual confirmation! The fact that we have to pay to see these matches, is something where our group  indignation, should truly be visited upon those , that dictate our (the fans) game, &  is something that needs to be looked into. I respect that statistically, we can all put forth arguments that are valid. What I cannot stand, is the vitriol directed at each other, and the braggidaccio, on behalf of our teams, that leads to the insults and degenerative nature directed at each other. We all love this game; that is plainly obvious! Acknowledge and give respect where due, and move forward for the benefit of the game and all followers. It is just a game;  admittedly a great game,  and inclusively, all its gladiators therein; but let us not lose focus! For should we continue down this path, we will do a greater dis-services I it, than those that seek to manipulate us from behind the scenes.

A very good Aussie team beat India. So what haven't home teams lost! McGrath always predicts 5-0 Ashes and has fallen on his face. India were totally outclassed by a fantastic team. As a cricket fan accept this defeat and it can happen to any team. Yes many fans were over the moon predicting 4-0 and have been proved wrong! Aus will have an upper hand in bagalore as tge pitch bounce which suits both their pace and spin so another cracking Test on the cards

Team and selectors should stop the ego. And select the team on opponent and condition base. Always team should be mix of young and experienced players to guide and handle the situation when required.
Ghambir is a good player of spin. Consider him in next matches. Youngsters will learn from him also will help the team when sudden collapse like this happens.

It must be said that before the series started that Australia were better prepared and motivated to do well. O'Keefe didn't play in the BBL to prepare for this series and the team went to Dubai where they trained on similar wickets. Lyon spoke of how he analyzed Ashwin's bowling before the match by watching videos. They took help from Vettori, and Panesar before the series began and their spin coach Sriram knows Indian conditions very well. So the Australian team must be given credit for their hard work and preparation. I hope we do something similar when we tour. Before that we must greatly improve our play against spin and fielding if we are to stand a chance in this series. I'm afraid Australia have their best chance in a long time to win this series by a good margin.

I believe ind has no chance of coming back into this series ind took aus very lightly and have paid the price of it and when you give a side like aus a chance in tests they wd not spare you indian whitewash on the cards 4-0 with all other three tests also finishing inside 3 days with o Keefe being the man of the series mark my words.

That is the FIRST phrase I used in commenting on this test, at the very first sight of the pitch, which was a very big letdown, from whatever I had read & heard from people I trusted.

At that time, disappointment on the pitch was the only annoyance. By now there are far more pointy ends poking me from behind.  I am tempted to use the same phrase on multiple counts now, staring from the very top - Captain Kohli. Without listing them, I would just use the same phrase:

@FOREXCELIENCEINCRICKET "IND has generally dominated all teams in all forms of cricket from 2007 onwards..." I was expecting to see the necessary "in India" qualification to that statement but you must have forgotten it. Yes, India has been dominant IN INDIA just like Australia has been dominant in Australia, SA dominant in SA etc etc. Since most teams win at home... India don't have much to gloat about in that regard.
Have India been dominant outside the SC? LOL.

India's tail starts after after Rahane ,Good teams will exploit this .Saha is nothing but just another tailender

It is such a humiliating & embarrassing defeat. Its worst loss ever. Really shameful display. Playing such a way. Outbowled & Outbatted in such a disgracedful way. All indian players should hold their head in shame.

Congrats to AUS for a thumping and comprehensive win. One cannot recall the last time IND was decimated in this fashion, not even overseas let alone at home! However I would reserve any further comments for now. One match does not make them a bad team overnight nor take away their recent unbeaten run. What was a bit worrying was their batsmen appeared to be mentally overwhelmed and bowlers outperformed. Plenty for them to think about before the second test!

@HDG1978 
To Australia's credit they removed most of the deadwood after that loss to SA and have won 5 tests in a row, so I'd hardly say it's the same side..not even close.And so what if SA have won 3 series in a row in Australia, I think you'll find the Aussies have won in SA even more.

India thought Ashwin & Jadeja are the best spinners in the world. They were over esmated and thats  where things went wrong with other world class talents

First thing I have to say is that you have every right to celebrate this fantastic win of your boys.

None (including you & me) would have expected India to be thrashed in this manner. So, this victory has come like an ice-cream cone, with an extra scoop of hot-chocolate on top of it.  You have every right to gobble up a few, and thrust one on my face, all in fun & joy. The only response from me will be shaking your hands even more, with all the choco on my face

Now, on brass tacks. I think, you have the bowling, probably, to win the series. The probability is NOT closer to zero as I said, a few days ago. It has risen much higher. As I said then, the 'probability' always get revised with more evidence emerging one way or the other. Which way it has;  is crystal clear.  

But, if madness goes away & if they revert to 'normal' Indian pitches, as NZ & ENG had, it's 50:50.

Congrats Australia! They were so good that even if Smith was out on a duck..twice even...even then they would have won! So good. Just cannot say its cos india was that bad.  I then thot..no this pitch wasnt prepared for india's benefit. But then..isnt it a rank turner!? Wonder what to say then. No excuse. Brilliant australia thats all. As an indian fan, i dont care even if australia lose the series from here...cos i just wonder when would India win a test in Australia like this even if we lose the series from there! How i wish. Anyways, how aussies have turned the tables since that S.A. series loss! Like Ponting once said, its our turn to say that aussies made us curl our tail inwards ahem. Lets just congratulate them and walk away like gents! haha. Good game.Cheers. Meanwhile some fickle fans would suddenly say india has no talent n virat is no good n bla bla. Short memory indeed! but that was the case forever! This..was..nywys...a bodyblow! stunned! knocked us out cold. lol

Okay folks, gotta re-iterate, that apart from Harbajahn ( truly a great bowler of the spinning family, yet allows personal grudges to pass from his brain to his mouth unfiltered!), we need to acknowledge that our national cricketing representatives, have done their best, and that this was the outcome. This game in particular however, happened to go against the Indian team. Just accept it, as i have done, as an Australian supporter for many years, in regard to our sub-continental escapades. If we were all worthy of representing our nation, would things have been different? Doubt it! And the same train of thought applies to our opinions of what we all think should've been enacted by our respective players. They've done the best they can, there endeth the argument. I have had enough of seeing the vitriol being offered by all and sundry, regarding their team. Valid it may be, mostly not. Let us all commend those whom deserve it for their efforts, and anticipate what is to come, minus boast

I won't count Ind out especially at home. Expect fight back if the #1 ranking means anything. But rotating spinners won't be a bad idea. These days the spinners seem to have a shorter life span unless you are a Herath thanks partly to all the data and video footage available to batsmen.

Now India must have understood Ashwin is not a capable # 6 or 7. His ideal position is 8. There must be a specialist batsman at 6.

India were complacent after long winning run in home matches. But they must remember that was against weaker teams. No doubt it's Australia's weakest team to visit India in last 30 years, still they prepared well. They went to Dubai to practice on slow pitches. On the other hand, India was feeling over confident that they will steamroll Australia very easily. That was never bound to happen with this complacency.

This loss due to over confidence and under estimating opponents. We already lost when they played with 5 batsman... They got success with 5 batsman strategy against England and Bangladesh. They should have played with Karun Nair in team. Hope they will not make this mistake in Bangalore..

@Cooljack How exactly did Ashwin bowl badly against Bangladesh? He picked up 6 wickets in the match I believe. He's not going to turn up every match and run through the side. Even in this match I believe he bowled reasonably well. When you have 5 catches dropped off of your bowling then nothing can be done. It is the failure of the batsman and the poor fielding that cost us this match not the bowlers. Australia played for no turn so the ball spun bast the bat. We played for turn and were getting out to the straighter delivery.

I see a lot of people asking for Ashwin to be dropped. Lets be fair and say that Ashwin and Jadeja bowled reasonably well. Ashwin had around 4-5 catches dropped off of his bowling. You need brilliance in the field like what Handscomb did. To bowl out the Aussies for around 250 in each innings is a reasonable job by the bowlers. When your batsman fail to cross 150 in both innings then there is no use pointing fingers at the bowlers. I suggest we bring in a few youngsters in to the batting lineup like Nair, Pant or Iyer. If Australia win the next test it could be 4-0 for them. I remember South Africa beat us by an innings in 2010 and we came back in the next match to level the series. More recently we must look to Galle in Sri Lanka. We were thoroughly outdone by Herath on a spinning wicket and came back brilliantly to win the series. We must show similar mental fortitude and resilience if we are to win this series.

@MILEPOST Agree on the fine part as this Indian team needs to be censured for a spineless performance.@CRIKETLOVER This same Australian team was shot out for 85 by SA in Hobart to lose the Test inside 3 days(1 day rained off) also to concede their 3rd consecutive home Test series to SA since 2008-09.This Aussie team is definitely beatable with probably 4 world class players in their XI in Warner,Smith,Starc & Hazlewood. Krejza bagged a lot of wickets in 1 Test in India in 2008-09.So would not read much into O'Keefe's 12 wicket haul performance.Still expecting India to win this Test series 2-1.Only surprise has been Australia winning the 1st Test of this series and the massive margin of victory attributed to India's unexpected 7/11 meltdown that psychologically took the sails out of Team India's wings.A timely lesson for the supremely confident(or over-confident) Kohli.

why is ishant Sharma still playing cricket. drop Saha, bring in Parthiv and let him open with Rahul. bring Karin nair and let the team have 7 batsman including wicketkeeper and 4 specialist bowlers. jayant Yadav is not an international quality spinner. he may have batted well against a mediocre bowling lineup like Englland but is not cut out to play teams like Australia. instead bring Mishra or chahal in if u need 3 spinners along with yadav. no point having too many bowlers when u have unlimited overs and useless bowlers

India is a No. 1 based on record and rules set up by ICC. It is not that hard to understand. Aussies have played brilliantly and deserve kudos. Mixing the two issues doesn't change plain facts. If No. 1 tennis player gets beaten by a lower ranked improving player doesn't mean No. 1 rank were flawed. Hope this.makes it simple to understand.

I'm sure team management didn't ask for that pitch . No one wants rank turner from day one esp not this team which wants Sporting wickets so they can prepare for away tour. This is the problem when you play such important tour on Rookie pitches which even hosts don't know much about . Frankly speaking Ash is past his prime form. His bowling is all one dimensional. He needs to take a break. Jaddu way far from him. Ash is breaking records but simply not contributing anything for the teams cause. Teams get so used to him these days that he's become a soft target for all the teams . I'm sure even if Afghans visit india they will take on Ashwin . That's the current scenario .give him break ,let him go & come back fresh . He thinks too much. I'd say more than batters Spin bowling & idiotic fielding cost ind the match. Why don't you get good sub fielders . Abinav mukund you need to go back wher u came from . u r rediculous in the field. Pandya better.Jayant looked clueless.hes day dreaming.

Regardless of the result, India should put the best 11 on the field. There is no reason for Karun Nair to be sitting on the bench. Rahane should make way for Karun.

It is going to be tough for India to comeback this series, Aussies dont give an inch particularly in this position. Too many weakness glossed over by exceptional performance of few. PREPARATION -seems to be the key for aus. It was Aussie batting that was the difference more than bowling. They were well prepared for even a rank turner (clues were thrown regarding one edge), if only our batsmen cared they could have fared better. Simply, current crop was not challenged enough by quality spin - not many great options in domestic setup who would have performed better. All our batsman who were getting runs suddenly & collectively donot fail - it was just great planning & execution by aussies. Now I want my team to only make better use of 2 extra days and prepare as well as they can and HOPE for the best.

Remember Warner has not made a big score yet, Starc no 5-er -which will happen sometime this series. This Aus team looks good.

India prepare this terrible pitch to pin Aus batters but it turn round and bite them!! The worst test wicket ever as mentioned by Rabi Shastri..

Brilliant Australia take a bow! Smith's innings is one for the ages because he scored more than the entire Indian team on a surface that should be as alien as it can get for Aussies. It just shows clarity in Smith's headspace and grit to stick to the task.

I still say Aussie batting wasn't that impressive. It will be a problem in next few test matches. Smith has to score all the runs for Australia, and Kohls for India. Ashwin was outbowled in this match, but he too is a class act.  I still back India to win this series 3-1, same happened in Sri Lanka too.

Ashwin needs a break from intern'l cricket for sometime . He's overthinking & messing up things. Soon  he will loose his no1 ranking . Everyone is taking him apart including Bangla. No point playing the same player who is impactless recently . Huge respect for what's he's done in past but now he needs break. Bring in fresh minds like Nair ,kuldeep, Chahal, Jadav,Iyer. Way,with which this team lost vs spin reminds me of eng tour when Monty Swann ripped Indians apart. Expecting similar result with Ausie win ,but atleast let's show some respect to the bench strength . plz get rid of Ashwin for a couple of tests ,quite bored & frustrating to see bowler of his caliber bowl howlers. All the good things done till now are going into drain with just one series . Ausies have come up with firm determination to silent their critics .not the way they batted but also the way they fielded was superb. Indian spin bowling & fielding to me is Worser, than batting which depended on toss anyways.

Congratzz Australia. U make the history again. u put India put under huge preasure early in this series. Sri lanka had faced against almost the same Australia team in last year. Thrashed them easily. I think This match lost by india because of the Wrong selection of players. I have saw Some useless players are playing in the 11. Upcomming India tour of Sri lanka Will be an interesting series. we are ready for the revenge Of the loss of our last home series against this Same Indian Team.

Oh Australia, you beauty! There is no words to explain this win. No words to explain the amount of good this would do to the team. Every single ball, every single shot, every ball saved, Australia deserved all of those! And what a way to break our losing streak in these conditions. Apart from Smudge and SOK, Gary,  Starcy, Hank, Hoff - all of them stood up! A landmark moment for this team. What is now important is for the team is now to keep the feet on the ground

Another easy win for the Aussies. May be the ICC should introduce fines for giving up like the Indians did.

Most of the Indian players got out to non spinning skidders.  All that Okeffe had to do was to bowl within the width of the stumps , which he did with admirable control.  This wake up call was necessary for Indian team , which was becoming somewhat complacent.  Very poor catching was the reason for Smith to complete a century. India wasted every Review and Kohli has to learn how to go for reviews. Jayant Yadav and Ishant sharma made zero contribution to the team. It will be better for India to replace Ishant with a better pacer and Yadav with a proper batsman.

One of the dreadful home lost in the history of test cricket. It looks Indian cricket team are riding back time when they used to get defeated in this fashion . It would have an inning defeat to Bangladesh if they had made this king of spinning pitch against Bangladesh in Hyderabad.

Aus not beat Indian team Aus beat indian pitches thats true statement every world team know indian pitches i sure if india play outside any country lose and lose every match every series but in home lose thats question

SHOBIT SINGH  -- Kohli's test average is 50 and Smithy's is 61 yet you seem to think that Kohli is better !? No wonder that you seem to battle to understand why you got beaten so comprehensively !

Indian fans, let's realize that India is a team of sub-standard players.  Only Vijay and Rahane can play outside the sub-continent.  Sad to see but this was coming.  Well done Aussies.Monday morning quarterback here surprisingly on a Saturday.  To think that team India can succeed overseas seems farfetched given this batting performance.  Preparing rank turners should make Kumble and others ashamed of themselves.   Batsmen these days have an IPL mentality which simply can't work in the longer format.  Smith proved what a champ he is.  O'Keefe simply benefitted from a weak Indian batting lineup not used to playing spin (remember SA?).  Not sure why Ishant was picked in the team.  India should play 3 spinners like SL.   This pitch seems like it needed matting on it for stability.  What nonsense drawn up by the Indian braintrust and hope they learn from it and get better pitches.  Did hear that the old India quickie Salgaonkar was the curator.  Maybe he didn't like fast bowling.

Well done aussies...
The defeats in Srilanks helped australian team to rethink the plan and approach in asian soil.The result they got today is because of the successful preparation for this tour and approach of players , application and contribution of new members of team like renshaw, handscomb,Okeefe,Wade and very improved and matured captaincy from Steve smith. Fully credit to Smith and boys.  Over confident Kumble , Virat and Team got a wake up call.. What Mr. Bajji will comment now ...

very poor indian team where is your top batsman and bowler thats just home top level not world thats prove thats great victory of Aus fight with bad pitch thats good i hope next match aus also win

Congrats Team Australia on thrashing Kohli and his Team India exposing the frailties of the team that were papered over by individual brilliance from Kohli or players like Nair in the recent 4-0 home Test series against England in Nov-Dec'16.This Aussie win can be compared with India's shock win over Australia in Perth that broke the Aussie record-equalling 16 Test winning streak on a fast bowlers' dream pitch against a capable Australian pace attack comprising Lee,Johnson,Stuart Clark & a fiery Tait.

@RAKHALRAJ ON  FEBRUARY 25, 2017, 12:37 GMT the only option is to call the series off. Nothing will save Team India. The defeat will get virat and virat as the series progresses for Virat and Co.

India seemed complacent as we had no preparation to plan our response to the aussies. Unpardonable. I don't think a few changes are going to turn it around. We cd look at bringing in Kuldeep, Karun and Pandya in place of Jayant, Rahane and Ishant. Ideally wd like to  bring in Chahal, Pant and someone like Ishaan Kishan.

The no1 test team (India, allegedly) well beaten, on a pitch where the opening bowlers were spinners, and in a mostly empty stadium.
If the BCCI and Indian crowds continue to treat Test cricket like this i fear for its future (well in India at least)

S O Keefe played 42 balls while batting, more than Kohli and many ind batsmen. Still taken 12 wkts...

Wonder what Anil Kumble brings to the table as a coach besides mouthing inanities .Does he have a say in selection of playing XI ? How much are his inputs worth on the likes of Kohli and Co.? He is being paid a whooping amount but what and to whom is his accountability? Rahane and Vijay would continue to play in Bangalore. Karun Nair may replace poor Jayant Yadav not the influential Rahane. Again are 6 batsmen reqd. in India? Can Indians ever get their team balance right? Problem is whether 6 batsmen or 5 bowlers the matches are won by one or two only while the rest simply bask in others glory.Kohli-Ashwin and to some extent Jadeja were looming large in the matches against Kiwis and Poms .Once Kohli failed the rest got exposed. It used to be with SRT in 1990s and  it is with Kohli now-Over reliance on an individual.Sooner other players pull their socks up better for India as a team.Easier said than done, though.

Love seeing Indians especially "King Kohli" getting hammered in there own backyard. Can't win away now looks like they are can't win at home. Hahaha

Hats off to Australia they outplayed India and deserved that win, the best team won, no excuses.  Getting two 100 scores in each innings didn't help, but in particular the first innings made the Aussies go in for the kill, even if we made 250 runs it would have been competitive.

Wow great win by aussies but the good thing is both  Indian openers used the DRS if not king kohli will use it for his dismissal,after all so called king kohli is the best batsman ever of the world ha haha

Its the 105 in the 1st innings made India players psychological  weak which is evident in 3td and 4th innings of this test match. Its a rare loss for us in home, so visitors can enjoy this for a while..

Overconfident India bow @the Aussies,  Rahane should have been replaced by Karun Nair, they should have experimented the result would have been different

While all praise is for Smith and O'Keefee but the game was set up for Oz by a brilliant innings by Starc and his two very big wickets of Pujara n Kohli in one over in first innings.
India should drop Rahane,Saha,Ishant n Jayant for the next game and bring back Parthiv,Nair,Bumrah (I know) and one of Mishra,Kuldeep or Yujvendra Chahal..

So happy to see the tactic of a 'pitch' that is rolled dustvhas backfired on India. Please ICC sanction the BCCI for the travesty of the 'pitch'. I dont mind spinning wickets but leaving footmarks after the first over is beyond ridiculous.

Congratulations to Australia for such a glorious win and good luck to India for the rest of series !

I am an Indian and i have been saying this since past 2 years. Preparing rank turners is going to bite you back. 1. You make your ordinary bowlers look world class . 2. You need to have batsman to cope with such pitch. We dont have Sachin, Dravid and Laxman anymore who were the best players of spin in the world. We now have byproducts of IPL who cannot last more than 20 overs. There is no need for rank turners. Indian pitches take turn and automatically after day 3. We always used to win in home pitches without preparing rank turners. Hope BCCI understands this.

1. I think ashwin, vijay looks really tired.... both should be dropped or rested.
2. Rahane can't play spin should be replaced with nair.
3. Saha should improve his batting, very tentative, should improve his batting.
4. Rahul should focus on t20 only, very inconsitent, more interested in style, prone to injury, should improve his fitneess, should be immediately sacked.
5. pujara should improve, considering he play only test
6. jayant not good enough, kuldeep should be replaced if 3 spinners.
7. Ishant is a joker.
8. Bring shreyes iyer, he & kuldeep can be x factor.
        Worst ever performance ever by team india. Really shameful, disgraceful & pathetic display & application. Disgusting.............

Oops 800 comms! Let me finish my turn. A thrashing, pasting, canning, hammering much more etc etc. Now many pundits have been very quiet, 4-0 wild predictions, innings defeat , Aus all out 80,60,45 huh really?? look your team now 105 & 107 all out. I guess it is hard to see the keyboard with egg on there faces. Anyway well played boys. I tip my hat to Smithy superstar, SOK . Fully deserved, no stopping us from here. Congrats AUSTRALIA & keep rocking. Congrats all fans @BOB, GLENNOZ, AUSSIENSW, LUCKYCOUNTRY, MERVO, MIKEPATT, SANJ, RVC, MARCIO, CHRIS et cheers ;)

Oh Indian supporters! Your passion is admired but you delusion is derided. How many tests in a row in india have you played? You are a very good team, but maybe not as good ad you believed. Producing pitches like that shows the true difference between the two countries. India only cares about India winning.

Remember Ajit Agarkar? His spell in Adelaide in 2003?. India won that match. I remember that we were all cock-a-hoop after that win. End of series. The scoreline was 1-1. Most importantly, how many wickets did agarkar take after that Adelaide test.
Lets wait till the end of the series before judging a player. Cricinfo, please publish.

To all avid cricket fans, I'd like to note, that, on behalf of Australia and all teams, that all fans would like even and fair contests. I have no qualms with the pitch presented, just that Australia got to bat 1st. It gives a perspective to others, minus the "rose coloured glasses"! Now that that's taken care of, we are all on common ground. I'd like to state that the governing bodies (ACA and BCCI etc) are pitching us against each other, by diluting the true athleticism and skills of opposing teams, in a competitive nature, by offering up standards of pitches etc, which we have no control over. Thereby, they pit all of us against each other, in an uneven playing field, in order to satisfy monetary objectives prescribed by themselves, for themselves! We all need to see the forest for the trees, so to speak!  I love that we all, as national supporters, root for our teams. I dislike however, that we are set upon a confrontational result, by these bodies. Let's take our game back.

I think India deserve to lose. They were over confident for long time. This crushing defeat that affect indian psyche. Finally people realize Kumble is a poor coach.  When opposition is as cunning as indian , indians will lose because there is lack of focus as group. Indians are skilled its more of working as single minded force is always problem for free spirited indians. I think aussies will sweep all the test matches. If aussie can take kohli wicket , it will have domino effect. There is no batsman in indian team other than kohli. Jayant yadav is a big waste. Can't bowl can't bat and leak runs. I can bowl better than him.

Time for Parthiv Patel to come back into team he will bring the confidence and belief back and he is currently the best keeper batsman india have.

Only thing mentio. In this kind of pitch odd spin bowler take many wicket because in normal condition he not able to ball spun and this condition ball get some amount of spin and enough to take edge but good bowler to get more spin and bounce and that enough to beat the bat and that is difference.

I am not IND fan but why everyone is so critical about kohli and all players and asking them to be dropped ...etc this is just a bad test match and learn to appreciate winners when you are being beaten by them stop criticising after just one match and  back your team for next one..this is the difference between India fans and other countries fans..lol

Harbhajan Singh said if Aus plays very well Ind win 3 nil otherwise 4 nil. I like to see his opinion now.

I must admit that I fail to understand how 'some observers said (the Smith innings) was the best hundred they had seen' when he was dropped three times before he got to fifty. Surely number of people could have scored like that with such generosity?

Congrats to Aussie! I knew they would trouble India after getting 260 in their 1st innings, but never expected such a humiliating capitulation by India twice in the same test. Fair to say some of their batter's reputation has taken a beating. First, Indians gave too many lives to Smith who needs no second invitation and promptly got the best score of the match. Second, I didn't expect much from both Ind openers in their 2nd innings. Vijay got his quota of runs against Eng and BD, so he will stay low until the last test to score another half century. Ditto Rahul. Pujara's failure in both innings is the most disappointing of all. This is the type of wkt and challenge a batsmen of his supposed technique and caliber is expected to show what he is made. Know, we all know. Its now confirmed, Aussies won't be beaten 0-4 in tests. Ex-Indian stalwarts have to come up with a new prediction now.

Renshaw,Stark and Smith combined made more runs than the Indian team in both innings.Australia was wise to include two spinners.India with all the talk about spin can't play spin.Now what do they do..make those grave yard wickets? Stark and Hazelwood have pace enough to worry batsmen who like to chase wide balls.Great win for Australia.India will have to show the grit that Kholi talked about against England.

Comprehensible! Total domination!
 India have been cut down to size, authoritatively and masterfully, by a team that was expected to routinely crumble into submission, to the subcontinental masters of the present, just like the visiting teams before them.
Will Australia repeat their domination in the matches to follow? We shall see! Game on!

How can people say that indian players are tired as once sunil gavasker said how can you be tired of doind something that you love , the teuth is they were over confident and the difference can be seen as every single aystralian player gave value to their wicket and  the preparation was visible. accept the xefeat and lets just hope that we do a better job next game.

Come on. India did not lose by 333 runs. They lost by an innings and 48 runs. India 105 & 107. Australia 260. Australia's second innings is something they played for fun. The match was lost when they allowed Australia to 256 for 9 on the first day, that too allowing Starc to score 61. Very shameful. These kids do not know how to play spin (they are not very good in fast wickets too, that is a different story)

333 run margin defeat in a test match, and within 2 and half days? India's test status should be under question.

@ReapWhatYouveSown, I call you out. who told you that spinner friendly pitches should not be made for test cricket? who said only India can/should win in such pitches? didn't this notion get proved today that all you need is skill? Isn't this similar like having a pace friendly pitch in Perth where the ball take off from day 1? cricinfo, please post.

these type of all rounder india consider in india they are ok in india but in overseas tour they are just tailenders

IND has generally dominated all teams in all forms of cricket from 2007 onwards with MSD as captain (greatest in world cricket history) except on a few occasions with No.1 ranking in test cricket, 3 world titles (could have 6 with a bit of luck). 
It is therefore quite natural for fans of some teams to be disappointed. Some may have got temporary relief in tests with IND's 3 losses. Kohli led IND has regained No.1 ranking in test cricket.  
Now with IND's big loss v AUS in test 1 at PUNE, fans of some teams are making sweeping comments about IND players who are proven performers.
IND has the best team (batting,bowling,fielding) resources across all the formats. Kohli without doubt is the best batsman in world.
What has worked for AUS is calm captaincy,excellent fielding, familiarity with conditions & good preparation. 
What has not worked for IND is flawed 5 batsmen theory & bunching of too much test cricket in short time. It is time to introspect with better batting coach & fight back

India has been great in past, give them time and they will bounce back. Immense pressure on Kohli and he has to show his leadership qualities.

Only two failure of kohli and smith is better.Fact is fact kohli is better .Second We are expose everytime when rankturner is there .Clark took 6/8 do you remember in Mumbai.Herath show our weakness in Galle.Now O keefe time.Rank turner is weak link for us.Not fast wicket kohli struck four hundrad in Aus.We won in Perth .And some one ask about winning series in Aus ,So because of umpiring We never won series.Now drs is come and this thing will change t faith inupcoming tour.And about this series O keefe surprise us,So this is first and last heroic performance in this series by O keefe.Yes in this test match credit goes to ausis.Its a gala time for you .But remember We will back.Need To Rahul replace to parthiv and Saha replace to Nayar .Jayant replace to Mishra/Nadeem and Ishant replace to Bhuvi Or Aron.Rahul is the finest player but issue is fitness and little technical issue Go and take your time And Return with a fitest body.You have a bright future.As a bowler Yadav has no x factor

If you add up India's total in the first and second innings  of 105 runs and 107  and compare Australia's first innings score of 260 runs then it can be considered an innings and 48 run victory for the Aussies in less than 3 days. I have never seen a team dominate from start to finish and India was totally outplayed in all departments of the game in bowling, batting and fielding. Kholi has never surrendered his wicket so easily without a fight in either innings of a match  and the pressure was too much even for one of the finest batsman in world cricket. The way he got out in both innings was not  by his standards and to say the least just incredible. For some mysterious reason It has taken nearly 6 years for Steve O'Keefe to break into this Australian test team despite being the leading wicket  in shield cricket almost every season. As usual India turned out a dust bowl for the Aussies and they themselves fell into this trap severely exposing their own weakness against spin.

Although the transparent Indian tactics of rolling out another moonscape and winning the toss backfired on them, the match was won by the Australians simply out-playing, out-fielding and out-reviewing them

Dear Virat Kohli, the outcome of throw of dices will not always be 12. Ask ms Dhoni about it after 2011 wc.

the 3 month crash course Aussies did before this tour paid off. this should be the best performance against India by any visiting team. Interesting to see if they can keep up on different kinds of pitches.

save cricket by stopping ipl,  bigbash,  bbl,  ppl with these cricket is non stop for cricketers, not showing intrest for major tournaments

To all the Indian supporters I put forth this question: why are you surprised that when your team of invisibles heads out of home, that they struggle to win? It is a rhetorical question! The answer is that you insulate your players, from the BCCI and coaches downward!  via what is demanded, pitch wise, for touring teams. This test result was bound to happen inevitably, all on the result of the coin toss and subsequent call. There is much chagrin and pans hung of teeth outside your world as soon as you see a slight green tinge to a pitch. This is a result of your governing body (BCCI)! Tis nothing to do with doctoring. If you like, I'm sure your next venture to Australian shores, we can greet you with a lush and verdant pitch in Brisbane. The only reason that India gets a look in is that Cricket Australia, loses $ if a test doesn't go 5 days. Note Steve Waugh's team regularly wrapping up tests in 3 days. On a side note, Australia's drop-in pitches are ruining our game! ie flat tracks

Amid the 700-odd comments, I will add my twopence worth. The term "famous win" is cliched, but if ever there was one... Possibly the greatest victory by an Australian side in my 47 years of watching test cricket. 13 years of failure ends in 3 extraordinary days. Sensational, unbelievable, unrepeatable! Never has a side been more written off than this Australian one. Take a bow, Steve Smith & co! Smith might just be the finest Australian batsman in the last 50-odd years. Oh, and for those in India collectively responsible for pitch preparation: perhaps the expression "hoist on your own petard" might ring a few bells. Lastly, for all that, I still expect India to win this series...but for the moment, exultation in the land of Oz!

This is like a shock treatment to Kohli and team. Played this game with an ease of playing against Bangladesh. How can anyone drop Steven Smith more than 4 times in a same innings.

indian cricketers should play in bigbash league and england county,  to get used to their conditions,  ipl ruining the prestige of indian cricket,  these indian cricketers getting huge amounts in bidding and not showing intrests in international cricket.

Pathetic cricket by India . They deserved to be a annihilated by Australia.  Aussies have now set the tone for the series .

Lotsssss of comments!! Still I cannot stop my syself. After Bangladesh's loss, I said in comments that India is going to lose games against OZ. But I didn't expect so much! Hmm, this is trus Indians batting or Bowling. The team itself, batsmen or bowlers are number one in ranking. Only reason is-they are playing at home. England or BD lost because of their confidence, losing toss or lots of misses. That's why I said you are gonna lose the tosses, lose to games. Probably, OZ are going to be real number one team in test. Good luck both of the teams for rests!!!

Well done Australia. So much for all the big talk dished out by Indian players. This was not a beating but a thrashing that goes into the history books.

I believe India will come back strongly. we can't say after one loss they are bad side. after all no 1 spot is not gained overnight. there is along hard work behind this. good luck India. good luck cricket. Fan from Pakistan.

On such pitches, if you loose the toss, only way to comeback is by taking a lead of 100 runs in the first innings. Then India would have chased less than 200 in the 4th innings. But on the other hand, India conceded 155 run lead. It was all down hill from there. Chasing more than 200 in India is a huge challenge. Especially on such pitches.

This shows how much Sri Lanka's performance should be appreciated; the match went exactly as was the SL match with the home team collapsing to a hundred but the epic innings by Kusal Mendis made the difference. Also Herath did wonderfully well in the second innings better than much hyped Ashwin & Jadeja. India 's confidence got a dent let's hope will bounce back in the second.

Night mare for India. Bad umpiring decisions and India loosing their reviews early. This gifted Australia in retaining wrong umpiring decisions. India and Kohli started their play with over confidence that spinners will take control. This time aus did lot of background job. It's Australia spinners who took control and nation shocked.

Losing a test is ok. Losing a test at home is ok. Losing a test at home, on a turning pitch, with the top 2 ranked spinning test bowlers in the world and with 2 top 10 batsmen, against a (fast bowling) team that just lost at home, is NOT ok.

India should go with Vijay,  Pujara,  Rahane,  Virat,  Karun,  Shaha,  Ashwin,  Jadeja,  Hardik,  Kuldeep,   Umesh........ Ishant not useful at all and Rahul is a useless investment just like Rohit in test..... Kuldeep for a change in spin.....  Hardik at least will bring zeal which is missing in pune test......  Hope for a great series ahead.....

you have to get to pitch of the ball to play it. you let it pitch you are gonna get caught. indians were sitting duck with their rooted footwork. vijay was lucky to survive 10 balls there. aussies had impeccable line. indians looked like a junior team. they got bundled out for 100 twice! whoever made this pitch need to be fired. it was a minefield. And worked against the home team once they loss the toss.

Great performance by Australia and especially Steve Smith, Steve O Keefe and Lyon in the second innings. India need to look at their players and decide if this is the best team for the second test. My opinion is that we need to replace Rahane with Karun Nair. Also, Bangalore is Nair's homeground and that might another consideration to get him into the squad. I think Kuldeep Yadav would add more value to this squad instead of Jayant Yadav in terms of variety. And Bhuvi coming in for Ishant Sharma would be another suggestion (Ishant was the only bowler in the entire Test to go wicketless, what has happened to him?). Hopefully Bhuvi would be able to swing the new ball and get some early wickets. Another radical thought would be to try Hardik Pandya to fill the role of a medium pace all-rounder (although I would prefer to have Bhuvi). Also, couldn't we have had Hardik Pandya substituting in the fielding department instead of Abhinav Mukund (who dropped 2 chances in short order)?

These one sided games. All hype befor it all started. Time to think about giving fewer matches to India or any team based on the fashion they loose.

indians have never won against australia in australia. so losing to them always hurts. And more so at home conditions.

After watching the whole test I came to few loop holes which lead us to defeat........
1)  Players look tired specially Ashwin, Rahul,  Rahane,  Jayant,  Ishant,  Vijay.....
2) Only Virat,  Yadav,  Jadeja and Shaha showed some intent for fight... 
3) Ashwin looked most tired and was trying too much variations on pitch was spinning....  And In batting also looked drained....  Better take a break from cricket...... 
4) Rahul is player taking his place for granted and lost the great platform by throwing his wicket....  Health wise he so prone to injury.....  Better he should only play T20.....
5) Rahane looked clueless against the spin....  
6) Ishant lookes tired after bowling few overs,  no pace nothing.....  Waste selection .....

Serves India right for producing a sub-standard pitch was supposed to favour their spinners but the ploy back-fired bady. Now that the Aussies have spin bowlers that can match the Indians, what's the bet that instead of a dust bowl the wicket for the next Test miraculously turns into an absolute road where India hope their batsmen score 600+

Steve O'Keefe is an ordinary bowler?? how can they say that. What about the ashwin jadeja who always get to bowl on dust bowls and struggle even when the wicket is flat?

Amazing game! And let's not forget that australia was recently beaten at home by a SA team that lacked ABD, Steyn and Morkel. Congrats this time to australia on rising to the occasion with a fantastic performance.

I think indian batsman aren't  very great players baring kohli, he too can't play in challenging condition, Most shameful defeat of all time.
1. Both openers are disgrace, once in blue moon players, both should be thrown out, getting out lbw & then reviewing what a foolish.
2. Pujara not good enough no. 3, & people were comparing with dravid.
3. Rahane again not good, very tentative, ...............
4. Kohli can only play in flat track...
5. saha not good enough batsman
6. jadeja/ashwin overbowled by aus spinners  is disgraceful
7. jayant not good enough
8. Nair should play instead of rahane,  
9. Kuldeep yadav should play instead of jayant if going for  3 spinners
10. Shreyes iyer/mukund should play in team.
11. Fielding & Kohli captaincy is very bad, going through emotion DRS review is the worst among all the team.

May be the frail Indian players are really tired,because of the tight schedule! Even against Bangladesh,the spinners were almost ineffective. The fielding looks terrible now,batting equally inept. The Aussie spin duo reminds me of Swann& Monty and this O"keefe guy would fade into oblivion after India tour,but not before doing a number on this sliding Indian team.The preparation made by Aussies is beginning to pay off! Or maybe ,I am wrong,the Indian team didn't like the paltry offer made by the ICC to the first place team after this series is over !!

Most of the previous visiting teams in India floundered in tests because of two major reasons combined:
a) Inability of their batsmen to score well against Spin in Indian pitches
b) More importantly, lack of quality spinner who could turn things around.

In the current AUS team, Steve Smith, Warner and maybe Handscombe can fill in for the first gap. O'Keefe filled in second. Maybe Lyon alone would not have made this difference, as we have seen from previous tour. Coming tests will be more interesting !

shivramga94.... I call you out! I encourage the Indian team and all the powers that be (BCCI) to provide a pitch with some green on it! That would be a fair call,  as opposed to pitches that start exploding 2 overs into a 5 day test match! Prior to this result, such statements would have been met met with much derision. The only difference between then and now is: INDIA LOST THE TOSS! Simple as that. Provide a sporting chance and see how the match eventuates. That is the true "sporting chance", something which until now has never been of such importance and discussion, as India have always faired well in regards to the call and the shoddy pitches presented.  Should the BCCI decide to enter into such an EQUAL start, bare in mind that the only "fairness" in the match, pertains to who wins the toss, and subsequently, whether the winner of said toss, decides to bat or not. Check the records mate! It's simple reading really.The BCCI demanded a sweet cherry 1st up, and it backfired!

This very comment really made me rofl. Don't worry bro, we don't play like this always. I am happy that you enjoyed the match and India's loss. This is a golden moment for you and you won't get such chances again and again in your life. Go and celebrate. Cheers!

As India have lost so the pitch talks (flat tracks, turners etc) have gone off from comments automatically. Other way around it would've been made this section a grabage pit. So atleast foreign bashers are quite now. One loss tells what stature India has earned in world cricket. From Aussie commentators to cricket pundits to some other team players, their fans and some ex-players are feeling relieved now. Same used to happen when Oz reached top spot. Every team used to feel like king beating them that time.

All the best Aussies for next match and Team India, you more capable of backing yourself and get through hard time. Believe! Again

Although Jayant can bat, he isn't good enough as a bowler to be in the team. Replace him with the Chinaman and see what he can do. Rahane should be out of the team asap and play Karun in the next game. And remove Ishank Sharma from the team. If Rahul is injured then have Iyer in the team and if Saha doesn't perform in the next match with the bat throw him out of the team. This is the worst ever home performance by our team in the last 20 years. Worst ever batting performance by us. Starc was hitting sixes at will and we were struggling to touch the ball. If Rohit Sharma is fit ,have him in the team too as there's high chance of batting failure in the next match too. No need of Rahane in the team if it's spinning, you can try sending Jadeja ahead of him if he's somehow there in the team for next match. Replace Ishant with Pandya or Pathan. Atleast Pathan will get some early wickets. sad sad day for Indian cricket followers. Lose wouldnt have mattered but the way we surrendered was epic.

India have been hammered, decimated. No excuses. Aus outplayed us totally. Very well played, to them. There had the faintest of hopes that Ind would put up a better fight second time around, but that was not to be. Sadly for us. But, to analyse this defeat from an Indian perspective, and without blaming the toss, what do we think are the main reasons ? (Before some trolls start jumping up and down, i reiterate that these are not excuses).  1) Could fatigue be playing a part ? But most international teams these days have packed schedules. 2) Loss of focus ? Complacency ? Too much attention paid to the IPL at the wrong time ? Could be. 3) Inability to play quality spin on a raging turner ? Possibly. Aus managed to do it ! 4) Poor catching ? Most certainly. Whatever be the reasons, the team needs to put this bad defeat behind them, refocus and use the pain and hurt to come out fighting. They have to come up with a plan to neutralise SOK and Lyon.

Now that Indian cricketers have gotten a taste of their own medicine, I wonder how it tastes. Bitter no doubt. VERY bitter! Well done Aussies!

IS ANYBODY LISTENING!!! HELLO FELLOW INDIAN FANS!!!! Wake up please. Seriously, most of you are so so stupid! While pointing fingers and blaming Kholi, Rahane et al while the ONLY change necessary is to drop ISHANT!!!! The players in the team are capable and they will come right. Whether Rahane plays or Karun, whether Saha plays or Parthiv, Whether KL plays or Dhawan it does not matter - They are all capable. The real weak link is ISHANT. He has always been a massive liability but seems to be the default option whenever Shami is injured! Please wake up my fellow fans!!!!! Even the IPL team owners realise because money is involved so they have their eyes open. Whereas fans don't pay anything out of their pocket so they are just emotional with eyes shut!!!! I know this loss was the whole team but they can all turn it around with exception of Ishant who looks incapable. Predictable bowling with not much to it, no wicket taking deliveries just gets a lucky one or two once in a while.

This is unbelievable from Team India who have been no.1 for good reasons. Their batting technique looked like Aus and English batsmen technique on even slightly turning wicket, Their collapse was like how Pakistan collapses every second time, Their mental make up was like how South Africa bats under pressure, their fielding was like Bangladesh or even worse, their bowling was like how English and NZ spinners bowled giving 1 or 2 freebies per over and not knowing exactly what length/line to bowl on an Indian turner. India were not outplayed by Aus, Ind under-performed beyond imagination. Yes, nothing went right for them from start and everything went right for Aus. Toss, catches/nicks not carrying or getting dropped, Indian batsmen edges carrying and taken well by Handscomb and even DRS going against them by their own folly. However, Kohli & co is far better team to lose a game because of all of this. I hope they bounce back and play like no.1 as they have over this long season.

@Nazmul - LOLOLOL "India should learn from Bangladesh. Yeah if any team takes lessons from Bangladesh they'd be an associate team

Steve O'Keefe is an ordinary bowler?? how can they say that. What about the ashwin jadeja who always get to bowl on dust bowls and struggle even when the wicket is flat?

what is funny is:  in the very next match if  India prepares rank turner pitch, they can be thrashed like this; if they prepare fast pitch, result would be same; if they provide highway, result is a draw, which is also count defeat for India; If they prepare sporting pitch, they might get outperformed by OZ.....CATCH 22

Worked, pummelled, thrashed, humiliated, destroyed, flogged, blasted etc. More of the same, I suspect lasting 3 days is as good as it gets for India. Kholi should have used DRS for his dismissal.

A crushing win. India outbatted, outbowled, outcaught, outfielded and out captained. Anil Kumble you might want to axknowledge this and give credit where it is due. I would say Harbhajan Singh, Ganguly and Murali Vijay all have egg on their face predicting 4 nil like many Indian fans. Smith has shown his class but as always there will be those in India who dont rate him. Sok and Starc were awesome. Well done to Smudge and the team. A thoroughly deserved victory. Hope we continue this form and really take the series by the scruff of the neck. I am eating humble pie as i wasn't sure that you could play the way you have away in the SC after how we played in SL. You have shown many on how good a side this team  can be.  Well done once again.

jadega and ashwani bowled 59 overs and rest 3 bowl 36 overs and second inning duo bowled 61 overs and rest bowled 26 overs. really why they three other bowlers then 2 more will be good.their confidence must be down when u know u not have much time to show. what u have in u r bag extra pressure.

What determination, character and perseverance Steve Smith showed in the second innings hundred. Best test innings of 2017 yet. Top of the rankings for a reason.

A crude wake up call for Indians. Indians have a history of surrendering to few upcoming spinners, Ajantha Mendis for example. Though they never repeated such performances again after the initial struggles and dominated those bowlers again. Openers are an area of concern for Indians right now. And VK should stop using 6-5 combo and include Nair into the team in place of Ishanth/Jayanth. Ashwin and Jadeja aren't dependable allrounders in tests. They cant hold their own when faced with quality opposition home or away. Mr. VK, it's high time you think about team combination from now on. Unbeaten run of ours must have made our team arrogant or reckless. And when will you stop poking balls bowled outside off? I dont want you to repeat that performance of yours in England again when we tour again.

I have no idea how they are gonna fix this. if you provide dry dust-bowls indians will lose when they lose the toss. indians are weak facing left arm spinners. none of the top order guys move their feet. smith gave a spinning batting class. what a great batsman he really is. he inspired his team. i wont be surprised if india lose the series. they have to provide a balanced pitch. otherwise worse is yet to come. I rest my case.

Indian pitches are known to produce bowling and batting Bradmen.First is Ashwin then Nair and now O'Keefe.First one is hardly any bowler outside India second one is already in the Oblivion and third one I.e O'Keefe will be forgotten in Australia till they tour India again.Indian pitches are raining Bradmen.It pathetic cricket

AUS took 13 years to win test match in India since 2004.how many years does India take to win test match in Australia since 2008?

Starcy will prove he is going to be one of the greats, Josh is our next Mcgrath, Davey confirmed he is the best opener in the world, Smudge is second only to Bradman and is the best captain!!! Garry is the next Warne. Come testit'd be the usual flogging by an innings ever time.
Aus to win at a canter 3-0 or 4 -zip LOL!!!

Yesterday I posted that we will see a fightback and India will win in the end but that didn't happened. Congrats Aussies. You were better than us in every department in this match and better team won it. Steve O'Keefee earned respect from me as it is not that easy for any spinner from a country with seaming wickets to come to India and perform to such a level. I hope both teams will take it easily. Australia won't get over-confident and India won't get distraught from here.

The body language of the our team was same as it was in first innings. Same mistakes in both the innings. Some fans are emotional and trying to defend or blaming other factors but the thing is pitch was same for both teams like we always tell our rivals and our team couldn't made anything out of it. One match failure is not giving anyone the right to question any of the player here. They are the best and will show you in next match. It's true. We can't win every single match and no team can. 

india will lose the series if they want rank turners. indian batsman do not use their feet and they cant play left arm spin. overconfidence cost them dear. 
they have no answer for kafee. one look and I knew they cant win this.
it can get worse if they continue to lose the toss and prepare rank turners. this pitch was a disgrace when the ball started turning from ball 1. our bowlers did not bowl well in both innings. australian line was ridiculous! worst defeat for indians at home. that guy who made 300 should have played as he was in  cracking form.        shastri's astuteness is dearly missed. he was sent packing 
unceremoniously. australians are crack a hoop. smith was dropped twice and one referral was not taken. kohli is no bradman. I am not following cricket that much these days but indians have been brought crashing down to earth! it will be a difficult turn around. with dry season and indians against indians they continue to provide hopeless pitches with no balance.

Wow - I really didn't see this coming at all. India being pretty dominant at home in recent years and Australia struggling in tests in SC conditions. Congrats Australia

I can see two changes in the next test for India: Jayant Yadav and Ishant Sharma out, Karun Nair and Bhuvneshwar Kumar in.

Superb win from Australia. Outplayed India in every department of the game. O'Keefe was absolutely superb as some of you said he would be (I haven't seen him play before). Complete lack of application from the Indian batsmen. This match may not reflect the final series score line as someone here said, but this is a victory Australia should savour for a long time. Bravo Steve Smith and team. Now please get Khawaja in for shaun marsh to strengthen the batting. We can win this series, i have hope again

India were clearly outplayed in every department. The pitch is same for both teams. Australia were well prepared for the series. India were complacent and looked clueless against a well prepared and top class side. Indian batters no point in asking opinion with non-striker when u r going for a review any way and waste reviews ! Kohli and his boys have task cut out for them for next matches.

This is a shame to all sub continent teams. Aus will now say we are not bunnies any more to Sub Continent countries. What a shame to No 1 team in the world !!!

I am happy in a sense that "dry pitches win matches" theory fails set by Dhoni & later follow by kohli. Hope kohli learns lesson from this & tells curator to make sporty wickets considering we have potent pace attack.kuldeep yadav &  nayar needs to came in place of Jayant & vijay.

WEFINISHTHIS This pitch suited O'Keefe but I still want to see how he goes in the next 3. Lyon had 4 catches put down and then O'Keefe got those 4 wickets. Give those 4 wickets back to Lyon where they should have been then O'Keefe would have finished with 8 and Lyon 9. People would still say he isn't good enough even if that happened.

Indian Team for Bengalore : Rahul, Vijay, Pujara, Kohli, Rahane, Karun Nair, Saha, Ashwin, Jadeja, Bhubaneshwar, Umesh. probably this might be a little better.Well played O'keefe and kudos Smith, you beauty!

Let's give credit to Australia and believe me whether we give them the credit or not they are taking it. They were just outstanding. Among Non-Subcontinental teams Only Australia could do that and they are a challenge as long as Smith is in that kind of form. India will comeback and Australia know that. A good Series.

MERVO well lot of left arm spinners have toured India ..out of all of them I think herath,Shakib n Dan Vettori will be considered as the match winners and the records suggest that India did pretty well against them in India as well as SL n BAN..So you can support as much as you want but the fact is that he was playedas a containing option since he bowls tight lines and hardly turns the ball..He is an average bowler and I can bet that he will be targeted in bangalore and let us see hoe he respond.. Till that time I will maintain that it's a fluke and he is an average bowler..Flukes don't happen every time

I still think Australia has some selection issues with M.Marsh and possibly S.Marsh as well. Depending on the next pitch Khawaja and either Agar/Maxwell/Bird should come into the side. I'd prefer Stoinis over all of them but he's always overlooked by the selectors.

India does not require wholesale changes. This same team has hammered Aus before and they will do it again. Just need to drop ISHANT like we did and we got to number 1. Bring in Shami if fit. If not play BK instead - Not only will BK surely chip in with a wicket or two (or more if pitch suits him) but he will also strengthen the batting!!!

India once again proved to be the weakest batting line up the moment pitch requires some extra effort. They should let go both openers, they are useless. India should get rid of Rahane, Saha, Jadeja, I sharma and j Jadav. these are useless players currently enjoying free ride, just because of indian home pitch and Kohli. India should learn from Bangladesh how to develop and grow a yound under-28 team.

Hey KIWIROCKER!!! Big words....it is only one match and please do note that India was very generous to the Australian cause. Australia played well and India played very poorly, and thats that!!! One match does not make a team great or bad. You would have heard the phrase "Horses for Courses", well that is what is applicable for Jadeja; Ashwin has evolved as a bowler over the last couple of years and he has performed inside and outside India. You should know that the so called WEAK England team has scored more than 400 runs many times when they were in India and still India won. Ponder that!!!!

This was a huge loss. As an Indian fan, I'm distraught, and disgusted. Hopefully this loss will teach us humility. Hope the team bounces back from here. As fans, we can only offer support.

This is shocking,  No other words to explain.  India was riding so high after beating England pretty soundly.  SL won 3-0 against AUS not very long ago.  But, fortunately for SL, O'Keefe had to leave the squad due to injury.  Now, he prove he is one of the best in the business.  But, I am sure Virat and company will come back strongly in the next test.

murali vijay plays once in a while,  he still keep on getting chances,  130 crores population cant find a perfect opening batsman,  kl rahul is ok he needs shreyas iyer in the opening

If we prepare rank turners an ordinary spinner like sok will look like world class that too from day 2. This happened in 2012 too with monty. If monty is a world class spinner what happened to his career after 2012. It went nowhere. Bcci , stop preparing this rank turners. Otherwise even Glen maxwell will get 5 fer

jayant yadav lucky player to play for india,  no talent cricketer,  look at his bowling action, even no. 11 batsman will play him comfotably

MERVO well lot of left arm spinners have toured India ..out of all of them I think herath and Dan Vettori be considered as the match winners and the records suggest that India did pretty well against them in India as well as SL..So you can support as much as you want but the fact is that he was playedas a containing option since he bowls tight lines and hardly turns the ball..He is an average bowler and I can bet that he will be targeted in bangalore and let us see hoe he respond.. Till that time I will maintain that it's a fluke and he is an average bowler..Flukes don't happen every time

@rajjjjja aussies have been calling for okeefe to be in the side for years first class ave 23 over 200 wickets consistently doing the job for nsw in shield.. you can pick all your toys up when you're ready

kohli doing what ms dhoni used to do,  all stupid players in the team,  murali vijay,  ajinkya rahane, wriddhiman saha,  ishant sharma,  jayant yadav

From twitter, posted by Dr. Gill
"Indian team was prepared for Steve Smith, Steve O'Keefe came out of syllabus.
#INDVAUS #INDvsAUS"

Not Indian team's fault. Same could be said for pitch. Indian team prepared for Indian pitch, this was made of soil from Mars.

The two batting changes should be Ajinke Rahane being replaced by Karun Nair and KL Rahul being replaced by Perthiv Patel. In the bowling department Jayant Yadav should make way for Kuldeep Yadav and Ishant Sharma should make way for Pankaj Singh, Ishwar Pandey or any good pace bowler as there are several better than Ishant Sharma. India needed an eye opener and this test was it now they need to play the right cricketers to win the series 3-1 and not procrastinate about batsmen like Ajinke Rahane becoming better at playing spin when you simply don't have the skills required you can't do anything but give your wicket away as Rahane has done all season even against C grade spinners like England's Adil Rashid.KL Rahul's inconsistency is getting worse and will continue until he is dropped from the test team and made to play India A matches, with Parthiv Patel as a replacement. These changes are crucial if India are to compete with Australia and make a series fight back.

Credit where it is due - well played Australia.  This is a kick on the back side that we will remember for a long time to come.  All my friends who said it will be a cakewalk can now refer to some of the sane comments that said this will be a close series than they think.  Kohli will remember this defeat and hope it fuels the side to play much better in the reminder of the series.  As for winning the series, I think winning a test is long way off if we continue to play as we did in this test match.

@RAZ2802 Agree with you that Indian batsmen were undone trying to play the turning ball instead of being watchful of the dangerous lines bowled. 

Australia have really prepared well and backed it up with good execution and discipline. Their batsmen clearly had a plan in mind on how to play the line and protect their stumps which meant that the turning balls would beat the bat and the non turning balls would be defended. This was a glaring difference in approach between the two teams. India will be tested against this outfit if they slack in basic discipline and tactics. India will need to rise to the challenge. Australia does not seem like earlier teams that toured.

Congrats to all Aussie supporters your team played beautifully and deserved this victory. I for one did not see this coming.

Australia out played India completely. Congratulations on doing your homework!Time to wake up Capt. Kohli - get rid of Murali Vijay, A Rahane and W Saha! Last chance for Ishant Sharma. All these are dead wood!                                         Unfortunately K L Rahul would have done better if he was well. 
Pujara comes in at number three and you at number four and for that you need the openers to put up a 100 run partnership to weather the ball.                                          You are an excellent Captain but your squad needs to be closely examined. Good luck in the next three tests.

MERVO well lot of left arm spinners have toured India ..out of all of them I think herath and Dan Vettori be considered as the match winners and the records suggest that India did pretty well against them in India as well as SL..So you can support as much as you want but the fact is that he was playedas a containing option since he bowls tight lines and hardly turns the ball..He is an average bowler and I can bet that he will be targeted in bangalore and let us see hoe he respond.. Till that time I will maintain that it's a fluke and he is an average bowler..Flukes don't happen every time

kudos to oz....terrfic fighting spirit and never say die attitude they showed, who'd have imagined this result....wow....terrific batting and bowling by starc, sok, lyon, batting by SS , renshaw, and handscombe - what terrific catchin close in...
am indian.....give credit where it is due...never bought in to the 4-0 whatever zero predictions that so many of my country men were predicting, it smacks of arrogance and belittles the efforts of the opposition....and i mentioned this on many blogs...the one upshot of india loosing is the internet servers will be tested with the legions of lets bag india brigade crawling out of the woodwork...and yeah....to several of my fellow indian bloggers and several pretending to be one of us and with their warped up agenda, can we blog with a bit more humility and dignity please? these blogs were a fun place at one time...cricinfo plz publish

I don't  know why  ind could not win a test series in aus in 80 yrs any suggestions.Cricinfo kindly publish.

need changes in the team othwrwise aussies will dominate the series,  murali vijay,  rahane and saha should be replaced with karun nair,  sanju samson,   and shreyas iyer,  want young blood look at aus team,  rainshaw,  handscomb,  marsh,  all young pls kohli give chances to above mentioned players

Cracking win for Aus. I wouldnt mind seeing a similar pitch again, made for exciting cricket. Class players will still make runs as Smith showed. Its better than scoring 600 and batting once to win the match. Well done Aus, Ind, better luck in the next.

Greatest team on own soil thrashed heavily by australia. seems that we are watching a game between australia and bangladesh. even bangladesh could do better than these great players. now indian fans should stop praising their star players because they are not great except kohli. all the batsmen are average other than captain. if u r defeated in  such way on own soil than who will save you on australia?? it is time to realize your own position that u even lose match like bangladesh or zimbabwe...pathetic..

Australia has done good back ground work before the series. It is the secret behind the success. They have hired some professionals exclusively for India. To be frank enough our batsman are not so strong against the spin. Simply our batsman most of the times performs well on placid tracks and on poor opposition attacks.Still we are lagging on producing quality classic spinners. Though Aswin and Jadeja are performing well, they are not quality Classical spinners. The former is more  dependent on variation of speed and the later is more effective on spinner friendly tracks.Moreover our domestic cricketers are aiming towards IPL assignments, which ultimately effecting the quality of  spinners in the circuit. In such scenario we cannot expect our batsman to be strong against spinners.Still India's performance on foreign pitches is below par Some changes are required in domestic level for enhancing the quality of cricket. Something is required to be done for offsetting the effect of IPL.

India A team and some Ranji players should play in the Big Bash or County Cricket to build skills to get India to win against Australia in their conditions. The way the current Aussie team has built skills. It shows a lot of planning at their end. Getting spinning consultants. Having training camp in conditions similar to India to build their skills before the Innings. Even on such a turning track, their batsmen played much better cricket.

Congratulations to Australia - great performance. Reading some of these comments it's hilarious to see how fickle some Indian fans are. Turning up to watch your side might be a start - it's so sad to see empty stadiums for Test cricket. Will be interesting to see what kind of pitch they prepare for the 2nd test after that performance

@MIKEPATT:"See? When we are at full strength, nobody can match us. That why we are the best team in tests and we have won 5 WCs. Our appetite for winning, our never say die attitude, our attacking flair, our athleticism on the paddock and our winners mentality!!! We are superior because Aussies are superior people. Proud, brave, beautiful, strong and proud!!! Aussie Aussie Aussie Oi Oi Oi" I'm sure you will not repeat that rubbish if India were to go onto beat Australia 3-1 in the series which can still be a very strong possibility, given the next pitch that Australia will play on. Steve O'Keefe's bowling are the best bowling figures of all time by an overseas spinner in India surely that won't happen again in this series where he will have the opportunity to better his Pune bowling figures on this tour as the India groundsmen will now be all to aware of his bowling and what he brings to the table as a left arm off spinner. I think the next test should see at least two batting changes.

You can remove Smith's ton and you can remove Starc's batting and probably his 2 wickets as well and Australia still would have won. What you can't do is take away O'Keefe's bowling. He was the obvious difference between the sides. Lyon was getting pasted around the park until he grabbed a few of the tailender wickets because Lyon simply isn't good enough to dominate on his own. India will definitely come back but they should work on their fielding first which prevented India's spinners from getting on top of the Australian top order. Some selection and captaincy issues from India's perspective let them down as well.

Pitches like these, even out the advantage the home team has especially when there are spinners/part timers bowling at 90 clicks in the opposition ranks. This is a repeat of Mumbai 2012 when Dhoni demanded for a rank turner and Monty spun the ball viciously at 95kmph and befuddled the Indian batsmen. The pitches against England last year were really better and suited to us as it brings out the different variations in spin bowling (flight, guile, drift and dip) without which it is very difficult to take wickets on such a pitch. Luckily we had Ashwin who was right on the money with all his variations in his kitty. But on Pune he found himself on the same level as Steven O Keefe. Not to take any credit away from O'Keefe, he bowled really well but I strongly feel if he had to bowl on a pitch which the English faced, then he would have struggled to pick wickets as you need to flight the ball to extract the extra bounce and slow it up a bit to make the ball spin.

Congrats to the Australian team for winning a match in the SC. Five losses and an upheaval followed by 5 wins in a row.No question that Australia had it all go their way but India will think twice about preparing rank turners. India will come back hard and all you Indian fans, you must be hurting but cop it sweet.

I fail to understand the fact that still some Indian fans are having a go at their aussie counterparts forgetting the fact that they have been thrashed

Starcy will prove he is going to be one of the greats, Josh is our next Mcgrath, Davey confirmed he is the best opener in the world, Smudge is second only to Bradman and is the best captain ever.  That Garry is next Warne!! We are superior because Aussies are superior people!!! Aus to win at a canter 3-0. Aussie Aussie Aussie Oi Oi Oi Oi

No sensible guy will criticise Vijay. He is one of our top 3 guys and capable of playing true fast bowling

CRICINFOUSER: India should give up the test cricket and play with AFG, Ire and Oman. Mate your overrated team won nothing in 9 decades they played cricket. What useless team you have in the face of earth !  Go and play your tuk tuk cricket on a road pitch !

It's good to see that there are some fans of other teams who like our Australians and express their respect. God Bless!

Champion batsmen against spin and champion bowlers of spin, both tittles are exposed. Lost 20 wickets in less than 80 overs!!! and the opponents played more than 80 overs in both innings. Shame on Indian team... Defeat is acceptable, but showing zero resistance is shameful. Anil Kumble said you can have bad sessions, but what can he say about this awful failure in both innings??

What a waste watching Kachra Kohli captaincy and batting on challenging tracks. I wonder how the team will do on seaming tracks outside of India under him. He was completely out of sorts as a batsman and captain.

CRICFAN35799855: Sure in your flipping dream India will win 3-1 ! Useless cricketing brain you have  hahaha

I don't think we have the luxury in the form of Rahane to drop Karun Nair after scoring 300+. Please keep bias aside and go by merit. We have done with Raina, Yuvraj, Ishant, Rohit, Amit Mishra and please resist the temptation of considering them for test matches. Let Sikhar Dhawan be away from test matches. Tell Rahul, he need not score a boundary every ball. Assure Vijay of his place. 6 Batsmen-a must. Umesh, Shami, Ashwin,Jadja as 4 bowlers with Saha as WK and the role for Saha is grafting, Vijay need to stay at the wicket.Pujara is an anchor. Runs will come when you stay there and

Team India 107 all out
Steve Smith 109
Result # Smith won by 02 Runs 
India is the worst team in Asia.They should play tier 2 system with Afghanistan.

We must accept the deat instead of blaming toss or wicket. We have exactly repeated the same story on day 3 while Aussies played equally well in both innings. It means toss or playing first or last doesnt matters. What matters is your homework, planning and attitude towards game. India laged in all fields.  One cannot imagine india scoring 200 odd runs in two innings on batting paradise wickets. Kkohli's drawing strategy will be seen in coming test matches because they are teapped in the very first match. Now it will be difficult for them to decide type of wicket to prepare for next matches.  They cant face fast fast bowling and they cant play quality spin as well. This is real talent of India.
Well played Australia... we love you.

Why do people keep mentioning the toss CRICFAN56592087 and others. Australia batted after India scored 105 and they scored 285. Smith 109 on his own, Are you all suggesting the toss caused that. I guess the pitch started good, deteriorated for 30 overs, came good again and then deteriorated again. Ha Please talk about cricket, beautiful unpredictable cricket.

More than even the Australians the Pakistanis are really thrilled that India was thrashed ! It must be appreciated that Steve Smith has just been appointed the Captain of the PRG in the IPL. They also have Ben Stokes. I think they will win the IPL this year.Obviously Smith is lucky for PRG.He won the toss in this test,scored a 100 and won the game.

India can never be good at anything. Look; they didn't fight in the second innings. Even though it was an impossible target to win they should have done something better than almost repeating what they did in the first innings. Now Indian fans understand why Smith is miles better than Kohli. Can Kohli inspire India to defeat Australia in Australia?

Congratulations Australia, you deserved victory. You decimated the Indians and go for 4-0 victory. You are the best  Test team in the world led by Smith who is fast becoming a legend. You showed the Indians that home ground advantage is just a state of mind and you beat them in their own game. Well done and continue to beat the overpaid Indians who have short changed their loyal fans.

kumble contribution is nothing in the team,  this fellow wants rahane in the team becuase of his past performances,  perfromed long way back,  shreyas iyer and karun nair in brilliant form

india batsmen should understand SOK is not big turn of ball.his most of the balls were not turning .but indian batsmen kept playing him for turn and getting LBW.I think they should try to adapt to pitch like Aus Batsmen.Also Kumble should have given some advice jadeja for fuller ball rather than length.India lost because they fail to adapt to pitch and learn with time.

saha 's contribution is not enough for the team,  he is a decent keeper,  but not good batsman,  when you have young wicket keeping batsman in the form of ishan kishan,  risubh pant why not giving chances to them,  look at south africa quinton de kock,  he is in all 3 formats of game,  only 19 years of age

murali vijay should have been dropped long back,  becuase of cricket politics from the spoiler ms dhoni he continued in the team,  this kohli needs to realize this and should drop him immediately,  he a is a waste of batsman

Well played Australia you are deserving world champions . Harbjan singh what happened sir to your predicitions . If it goes opposite what will you do sir

surely murali vijay should be removed from the team,  every time after scoring 100 immediately he gets out

need changes in the team for next match in the names of risubh pant for saha,  karun nair for ajinkya rahane,  shreyas for murali vijay

As an Australian, this is such an unexpected surprise. A long way to go in the series but we have to be pleased with the improvement since the selection changes made after 2nd Test loss to SA. A lot of people are questioning Steve O'Keefe's ability believing that he only performed because of the conditions which were tailored for spin. SOK has been performing extremely well in the Australian domestic 4 day games for at least the past 4 years. He averages 23 bowling against strong batting line ups on pitches not conducive to spin. He may not destroy India again this series but he will bowl with control and pick up his share of wickets. 
India resisted DRS for some years and I felt that they had sound reasoning to decline using it in Tests. It is still far from a perfect system but it is helping get more correct decisions. India will learn how to use the reviews better with more experience with it. Australia certainly struggled with it at the start.

@MikeNQ: Did he really say that? Wow. Just woke up to watch some teat cricket, and it's all over. O'Keefe got 2 6fers against India within 3 days. Twice?!?!? Are you kidding me? England had a decent first test before they fell apart, let's see if the Aussies can keep the Indians at bay. It is India's home. The tigers will roar back. They'd be best to put this embarrassment behind them and win the next 3. Well done, Aus. Alien conditions and you took advantage of shoddy fielding and the conditions. Well done.

@RAJJJJJJA actually O'Keefe has been an excellent bowler for some time in Australia but our harder pitches restrict his impact at times.  Lyon with more bounce is often preferred here. In India however, every Australian cricket follower knew SOK would be a match winner. There was no doubt. The selectors have never favoured O'Keefe as he is perhaps too outspoken at times, he is a natural team leader and a very smart cricketer.  In other words, he is no fluke. Take care.

it's indian batsmen failure. even one day they couldn't batted on this pitch. Australians batted good.

wow wow wow so lovely Aus am so happy u beat home team they just playing in home and win u beat in his home really congo super perform love from pakistan

Greet performance from aussies ,they outplayed us in all department and they are not gng to drop catches like eng .this win opens up the series and its a reality check for  indians ,i would like to see karun in as he plays spin well and one of the best sweepers we have now .if we win in blore it will be cracker of series but aussies are well suited for blore ,let see

Good old Half-A-Brain-Sing......a response to a question no-one asked!  When dos he last do anything of repute for India? And just for kicks, Symonds could come back tomorrow and amash you all over the park! Yo were always nothing but an ill-gotten headline! Cricket is much better off without your opinions. A "look-at-me" proposition at best! On behalf of the world, thoroughly enjoying you not representing world cricket! Keep it up champ

The only change that needs to happen now is get rid of Mitchell Match.  He is absolutely useless. If you need a real all rounder why not bring in Stonis!

@AUSSIENSW  hope you are right bro, but not sure i have the same confidence as you atm. 
Definitely half Aus team atm is destined to be great but the likes of Marsh x 2 and Wade leave holes. Cummins, patto back and we have depth in bowling.

Our spinners have bowled well but they are no warne! Even i could bowl spin on the deck served up today.

Let's not get too excited by Steven O'Keefe.  Michael Clarke once took 6/9.  That doesn't make him a world class spinner.  The conditions suited O'Keefe.  Ordinarily he a a tight bowler.  Not a big enough turner if conditions don't suit him.

There should be some serious pondering over how teams are selected. There should be horses for courses. But here, once a player is considered as good for a particular format, he is selected for n number of matches irrespective of the performance. While a dozen others - who are not considered good enough by the people who matter - get in and out of the team within no time, certain players are given an undue long rope. Raina, Ishant, Shikhar, Rohit, etc are glaring examples. Just a year or two back when Rahane was not considered good enough, he just warmed the benches, but now that he is considered as irreplaceable, he comes in at the expense of a triple-centurion! So certain players are given the feeling that his place is guaranteed. Such an approach has led to ruin of careers like Shivalkar, Salgaoncar, Rajinder Goel & among current day players Aniket, Nadeem & many others. The real tragedy would be the bringing in the new-poster boy Pandya in place of Ishant and giving him a long rope

Indian batsmen again exposed their weakness against quality spin attack - and miserably lost the match to Australia.
---------------------------------------------------------
Our batsmen have been playing poorly against spin attacks for the last several years. The spin-friendly track at Pune (from Day 1) totally exposed the deficiencies of our batsmen.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Australian batsmen too fell cheaply to Indian spin attack - but Indian batsmen should have at least performed to that level.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Two things contributed to India's downfall-
1 - Indian batsmen playing (nervously) for spin against O'Keefe; instead of concentrating on the line of O'Keefe.
2 - Jadeja spinning the ball too much which kept on missing the edges of Aussie batsmen, countless times. In contrast, O'Keefe is not a big spinner. 
Btw, Nathan Lyon took just 5 wkts in the match. Why? He too like Jadeja

Great, excellent win for Aussies  it is now India's time to scratch (to be really hard)their head hard

I think it goes to show Aussies came well prepared, and india came feeling complacent. India have been brought down to earth fair and square, though in all fairness nobody wanted such a pitch (A new venue with a little too much sun in the last 10 days resulted in this.).

@black_bird  Australias test record is much better than Indias. 2 years of hime tests doesnt make a great test side

Well, it was a single bad test India have played and lost in a longer period of time.  But it is a game and it ends with a result. Hopefully India come back well prepared in the next test.

This is a very good example why there shouldn't be toss and instead the visiting team should decide. In case if India would have batted first things would have been completely different. Kudos to Aussies for winning after 4502 days in India. It's gonna be a great series, hope the beat team wins.

I loved Kumble's response after India's first innings.  Every now and than in cricket you just have a bad day.  He said O'Keefe's bowling was steady and that he had had a bit of luck but the one thing is for sure, he will will not take 6 for 35 against India again.  Well, not sure about ever - it took just 1 day.

@Dunger.Bob, your question made me think of Michael Bevan against the West Indies at Adelaide but upon checking he and Warne just got 9, with Pidge taking the other.  Then I cracked it, from my childhood and always something I'll remember, AB against the West Indies at Sydney, here; http://www.espncricinfo.com/ci/engine/match/63499.html
He, Hohns and Taylor took all ten in the first innings and another 8 in the second, not too bad!

Contd. Australia would love to do the exact opposite, to drive the point home. TBH, when the season began I thought Australia given their trials and tribulations against spin would be the easiest of the tourists, but they have proven me so wrong and by a margin. 

In the End, given the losses on last few tours suffered by Australia, its the first time since 2004 that they have an upper hand in India, so the series in that respect actually begins now, only with the fact that Australia are already 1-0 up! Great show by the tourists who suffered horrors of their own at the hands of proteas and how, well have they performed now!

This will be a great test of character for the Indians, one which will actually be helpful for development of the side. In the end, looking forward to a cracker of series. Can only add, well done, Australia you beauty! This is what helps test cricket time after time!

@ANALYST_PISUPATI - I am with you mate!  I hope the selectors do not let in Rohit Sharma.  Dude is a serious disappointment considering how gifted he is.  On a separate note, the benefit of having the Marsh brothers is that if one does not get out for a duck, the other makes up for it.  One more test for Shaun and Mitch at the most.  Then bring on Khawaja and Maxwell.  I still don't get why Wade is still around.

Apart from all the wrong India did in this match is team selection. Ashwin and Jadeza are not all-rounder. So playing them with that mind is wrong.

Wake up call for Team India. Not the end of the world. Better preparation in Bangalore and you can level the series. You still are the No 1 Test team in the world. 
When you play Aussies it is about mental toughness.

REAPWHATYOUVESOWN I just want to lay some facts before coming to a judgement.Is not it a fact that Warne had advised the aussie camp to contemplate on blooding Swepson instead of O'Keefe. He is not having any significant performance in SC or australia. Just like 2 failures for VK does not make him a poor batsman similarly 2 gr8 performances won't make O'Keefe a gr8 bowle.tr.I bet no Aussie cricketer worth one's salt would have thought that  O'keefe could  be the match winner before the match started .He was played purely because he is a containing option. From what I have seen of O'Keefe in this test and the one India A game before he is an average bowler and I am going to stick to that unless there are repeats in the next few games which has a very less chance. Yes India played poorly and the aussies batted very well but O'Keefe taking 12 wkts is a fluke. The Indians are going to target him in the next game. If he comes out trumps I am going to eat my words and accept this i the same

First congrats  Australia. India should learn how to exploit turning wicket as was done by Aus spinners.  On a turning wicket how our bowlers allowed Smith to score a century.  This is the first time on a rank turner a batsman could score a 100 despite 3 lives. Take it from now, we cannot win this Aus team in the next three Tests. Give Ishant Sharma some big rest. Reinstate Karin Nair as  a mark of recognizing his triple hundred. Engage a better bowling/batting coaches for better quality. Paneesar's bowling tips helped Aus spinners a lot. We struggle against quality spin bowling. That is the only truth.

Very aggressive captaincy by Kohli. Good job. I am glad all issues Indian test team had was removed with Dhoni's removal as captain and this is now Kohli's team as someone had commented. hehe.

India will now prepare flat tracks, which will suit the aussies more.  As many have said its just one match, but winning the first test of any series is a massive deal.

Take a bow Australia! Incredible performance. Always thought O'Keefe would be someone to reckon with (Since that Lanka tour)  and here we are. India looked like a team on the back-foot when the day started and batted as if they wanted to get out of their misery as quickly as possible. Pitch was turning sure as hell, but India should have really done better in the first innings, lots of things to learn for the Indian team. ForAustralia, they know this series ain't over yet and will get only stronger from here. 

For India, well, going in with Ishant wasn't the right choice to begin with and I believed Kuleep could have been given a chance, though fair to play jayant since he had a good England series. Hope, they learn their lessons, esp. the batters, and don't get too defensive by going in with a 6-1-4 combination. These batters have won you the season so far, they should be trusted to do well now as well, don't lose the plot because of one game. Get in Bhuvi and Kuldeep.

A rank Turner destroyed India badly simply not acceptable.. Well done Smith man He shud have been MOM

Looks like Harbhajan Singh's 4-zip prediction will come true! Got my fingers and toes crossed. C'mon Aussie c'mon c'mon...

India should make pitches like the one in kolkata that was the best pitch of the series and India sealers got good help from it. if India plays on pitches like those India will become a strong team away also

India does not deserve test status. No other test team would have surrender within 1st 2 days of a test like. It clearly shows their lack of talent and class against a young Aussie side.

I have to beg to differ! Had Nostradamus known that Australia won the coin toss, his views henceforth would have greatly differed I regards to % chance of winning. Tis the beautiful thing of the TEST arena......IT IS A TEST! Even prior to facing up to a 1st day pitch that resembles last weeks unwatered leftovers....... Arguments for and against why Australia prevailed are worthless, there is a reason why India is an indomitable fortress for visiting teams. Just let natural occurrences dictate, free of the BCCI! Trust all the rest of the world, it's not down to just shambolic pitch presentations! India truly has a semi-worthwhile team. Tis no need to further your natural advantage....that's where the human side of things mess true results up. Believe in yourselves and accept what fate offers, and strengthen perceived weaknesses. By offering what you do, it will prove hard to beat India at home, but only gives a validated belief to opposition teams that outside of India they are fallible

Will the proposed Test Championship 'League' include points deductions for teams that prepare substandard pitches - as India clearly did for this game.At least that is now unlikely to happen for the rest of this particular series - well done Australia.

One bad match and everyone is criticizing kohli. Which team has better record than india in test cricket?. No one. We will come back much more stronger as we always do.

AussieNsw - Spot on champ! Happy to keep sticking it to the Indians. We should treat em with the same respect as they do us. Keep up the good work bud! BTW where's Rajesh India ?? hahha

Great win by Australia but let's not get carried away.  Celebrate today, but get back to work tomorrow.

Did India play better here in Australia?They lost Adelaide test by only 48 runs and were on course chasing the target. The Brisbane test was lost only by 4 wickets. That happens when u prepare rank turners in India.

Finally the bubble busted, how entire team is depend on one batsman  was clear , it was just awful sight to see  the batsman in & out of the pavilion at regular intervals  was it a test team or gully club  team was difficult to make it on top of that the test match was lasted just over two days very hard to digest , some changes is required in the team . One word for this defeat you reap what you sow

Well done Australia! That was an epic game! Smith totally deserves to be the number 1 batsman. Starc is turning into an all-rounder which is amazing!

well we should accept the fact that we were beaten by a better team TODAY. But lessens should be learnt and learnt quickly. We are a far better team than whta we showed in this match. Important points taken from this match: 1) What is Ishant sharma doing in this indian team, i mean this guy averages 36.6 with the ball at a strike rate of 66 that too after playing 75 tests and he is our strike bowler ........... As far as i remember he has only bowled one great spell in aus vs Ricky ponting and he is still in the team based largely on that one performance. Second, replace  jayant yadav, he was in team as a specialist bowler and he has bowled a total of 23 overs in both innings (he never looked like getting wicket even on such a  rank turner) against jadeja and ashwin`s 50 a piece. That says a lot about the captain`s faith in a bowler, guess amit mishra or may be kuldeep yadav would have done a far better job.

well we should accept the fact that we were beaten by a better team TODAY. But lessens should be learnt and learnt quickly. We are a far better team than whta we showed in this match. Important points taken from this match: 1) What is Ishant sharma doing in this indian team, i mean this guy averages 36.6 with the ball at a strike rate of 66 that too after playing 75 tests and he is our strike bowler ........... As far as i remember he has only bowled one great spell in aus vs Ricky ponting and he is still in the team based largely on that one performance. Second, replace  jayant yadav, he was in team as a specialist bowler and he has bowled a total of 23 overs in both innings (he never looked like getting wicket even on such a  rank turner) against jadeja and ashwin`s 50 a piece. That says a lot about the captain`s faith in a bowler, guess amit mishra or may be kuldeep yadav would have done a far better job.

I have a question for anyone.......Was it good cricket by Australia, poor cricket by India, or a little bit of both?

Finally India can come off its high horse, they needed this loss to come back to reality. Their team is OK on the road, but their arrogance at home needed this loss to bring them down to earth.Good Luck Australia.

India got outbowled, outbatted and outfielded. Batting especially was below international standard. How do you keep missing straight line and keep getting LBW? If they do not rectify picking the correct line vs O'Keefe then this series is going to be a cakewalk for Aus. By the way, not only did O'Keefe outbowl Jadeja, Lyon outbowled Ashwin as well.

It is  ,probably ,not the defeat but the aura of invincibility built by sections of media, few ex cricketers and of course their legion of fans which seem to be hurting India more. Concede a lead of 150 odd and you go only in one direction in a test-southwards.How do India regroup for the Bangalore test? Do they drop Jayant and pick Karun? Do they remove Ishant to rope in Kumar? Is Rahul hundred per cent fit ?Does Mishra find a place somewhere? The pitch at Chinnaswamy must not be a  rank turner .It should be a good cricketing pitch like the ones against Poms in Vizag and Mumbai .As Shane Warne said,if Indians dont beat Aussies in Bangalore the Aussies would beat them and the Gavaskar- Border trophy would not come back to Kohli and  men.

just when i thought after scahin we had such a great team .... it was a reality check for india, really, I am an indian cricket die hard but it was one of the most hopeless performance from team india ever...nothing to take away from australian spinners though...an excellent performance from Australia. Question is if smith could score a ton in India then how come take Rahul out none of the Indians even scored even half of it?? am not being pessimistic here but I just can't see India draw this series, let alone win it! All the best

Smith played an amazing innings. Scoring 280 Odds in this kind of pitch in 3 rd innings of test is not that easy. By the way where is Mr. "4-0" Harbhajan Singh

I like this O'Keefe, talented and he seems humble. Lets hope for a good series. Knowing India, they will fight back, hard. Good luck for both teams - SL fan

We last the test when we scored 105 in first innings and conceded 160 lead. Bowlers reasonably did well but so called world class batsmen no justification. If they can come back in 2nd test they deserve to be 1st ranked and this defeat is a bad day

Moral of the story for the Indian team - Prepare pitches for home advantage, don't underprepare pitches for home advantage.

I'm from South Africa and I was for the first time and probably the last series were I will be rooting for Australia. India for me are not the best team in the world they only have one world class batsman. Jadeja is average. Ashwin is only successful in Sub continent. Starc is class. Smith is sublime. Hazelwood is superb. SOK showed his prowess. Lyon showed character. Mitch Marsh played a posh knock.

As much as India hammered us (South Africa) the last time we toured, their batsmen were still abject throughout the whole tour. It's just that ours were worse. They made Dean Elgar look unplayable at times. I wonder what Pakistani spinners would do on these tracks.

Its a game and winning is not continuous and if Pakistani and BD fans are rejoicing over this defeat, please understand- You both are nowhere near India class and India will beat you both anywhere in the world and even a combined Pakistan and BD team will meet the same fate. It's just one loss and all of a sudden, you can't find everything wrong. The pitch is very and and India lost when they gave 260 on the 1st day- as simple as that. Comparing Paki's performance and criticising India is something you should avoid and realise your place from an overall perspective, not just in cricket.

RAJJJJJJA..... Luck you say? Soooo......OKeefe was lucky in 2 consecutive innocent mga then?! Haha, thanks mate. Keep that mindset up, that's what has got India to this point! This admit your foibles will allow you to progress and become better. To do anything otherwise will consign you to similar results! All comes down to toss of a coin, results show that whether or not you choose to acknowledge the inarguable. To fluke it twice in a game .....wish I'd bet on it because the payoff would be huge! Please allow this comment to be published, as it is a worthy rebuttal to all the pro-India diatribe I've seen prior, and to allow the supporters and the Indian team a chance to have a view from the other side of the looking glass!

@J.Vomkreig. Cheers champ! Happy I most certainly am! As for not even the most optimistic Aussie fans predicting this type of result, I think you'll find that a few of us such as Glennoz, Lucky Country, Mikepatt and myself etc have called this  in and think we will go on and smash India off the park in this series! We keep getting labelled as jingoistic, arrogant and blah blah blah but have always stuck to our guns as we honestly believe that this rebuilt Aussie side is destined to be great! This humiliation of the Indians is only an entree tune up for what we've got lined up for the poms a little later on. Anyone that underestimates this team will be sorry.

India has a long tail. Starting from ashwin. Ashwin is a bowler who can bat and saha is a keeper who cant hold his bat properly. Before playing an extra bowler, kohli should understand these facts. My team for bangalore test- vijay, rahul, pujara,kohli,rahane,nair,pant,ashwin,jadeja,kuldeep yadav and umesh yadav.

as a south african it's nice to see India losing on a sand pit beaten at there own game. congrats to the aussies. hopefully the Indians will now prepare proper test wickets from now on and leave these day 8 pitches for some club game

One of the most comprehensive wins I have seen. India totally outplayed and beaten within 3 days by 333 runs. Batting, bowling, fielding, use of Reviews, captaining, strategy, Australia were simply a class above in all aspects.
Very poor game by Kohli, two bad dismissals, poor use of reviews in both innings, and a fairly petulant display in the field when things did not go his way.
Only 1 game in but India has some work to do  and attitudes to adjust.

when you have so many stadiums in india why indian cricket board chosen pune cricket stadium,  not at all good for test matches that too in summer with no roofs, this stadium is suitable for t20s that too starting in the late evening

Now india should come back to ground after a sky ride. Truly that was a shameful defeat for India ahhh it can't be removed from history

KOHLI is a poor captain. Proven by RCB failure to win the IPL with the best team in the tournament. He had an easy ride in tests  so far.

Kohli needs to be dropped as the Captain, so that he can concentrate on his batting. If India can't beat Australia on their own backyard on such a spinning track, just imagine what would they do when they go overseas playing in Aus/Nz/Eng.

Pakistan were all out for 59 and 53 vs Australia in a test match at Sharjah a decade ago. It would be nice if their fans can watch highlights of that game.

One swallow does not make a summer is what I can say to all the chest thumping aussie fans. Its been 4502 days they have won a test in India until this one. I still feel O'Keefe was a fluke and the fact is both the aussie spinners were  wallopped in the India A game. So overnight they simply can't become amazing..Flukes happen once in a while and  that has happened. I will be extremely hard from here mate.

Yep, so called world best batting line-up survived only 75 overs including both innings. In 2nd innings, Ind 107 & Smith 109. It's known as total team effort. Ind isn't eligible to play against strong team like AUS. Playing with associate team, can bring them to No.1 spot.

Got to laugh. Australian spinners were "smashed" in the warm up game because the pitch had nothing in t.

Great team effort, Smith with his chancless ton haha, Reshaw solid as a rock, Starcs batting, all the Bowlers, Hanscomb with his fielding, Marsh and Wades second inning partnerships with Smith where just what doctor ordered as well, Wade kept pretty good i thought,,Warner and Shaun you know who, were quit.

We can beat Bangladesh that too on Indian soil and jump and go ga ga saying we are No. 1 Test side in the world and we beat Bangladesh, but when the No. 2 Test team called Australia come  we see are shown the real truth and given a lesson not to be 'overconfident' and show off so much.  It will not happen in any country except India that a player who scores 300 runs in a Test match for his team is dropped the very next match and made to carry drinks (Adding insult to injury).  Karun Nair did everything right and played the most amazing Test cricket in that match against England and we dropped him for a certain Ajinkya Rahane.  Ok Rahane is so good & has proven time and again he is 'Test material'. Why don't you drop Murali Vijay instead  and pick Karun Nair ?   Has Murali Vijay scored a single double hundred , forget a triple hundred that young Karun Nair did ? Why you go on picking Ishant Sharma ? Because he is tall ? Is there no other fast bowler in 1 billion Indians ?

Complete admiration for the Australian team for coming out and playing the way they did.Always expected them to do this.India weren't up to the mark.I find really fascinating to see SL,Pak and Bang fans wanting to comment on something not involving them at all.Shows how much they respect wonderful cricket:P.The comments are so tailor made.It seems they were waiting for India to lose at home so that they can fire shots.It is just a waste of time as a neutral to even reply to them.I would take my hats out for them if they can come and comment commonly for good cricket irrespective of the team.Commiserations to the Indian fans.It's high time for fans to start appreciating good cricket and stop bashing the best players of the opponents.As far the match itself goes,Australia were right on top,while India were far from it.Absolute shambolic batting.Irony is they got out to balls that did not spin.Time to put heads down,work hard and come back strong.

I feel its just one off day for Indian Cricket. Hope they come up in full steam for next test match.

Calm down people you are over reacting. It's just one game, just one game. It was a terrible pitch no doubt but I don't think Aussies will get lucky again. India will come back hard on them

why people are going after ranking system suddenly and hurriedly after one match. Did we question when Pak became no. 1 for few days. And mind you this Australian team is different than the ones lost in SL and USE. Pakistan themselves lost a test to mediocre WI in UAE and could easily have lost the series.

So Harbajjan Australia's weakest team beat India's strong team!!! India team will never become strong because at the same time you will never get players like Virender, Rahul, Sachin, Sourav, Laxman, Anil and Srinath. With one Virat one Ashwin you cannot dominant the world cricket.

Finally, the law of averages catches up with Kohli. This win was no fluke and can be ranked with the finest performances by visitors in India. In next test, India will come back hard. The conjurer has started its tricks and in the next 15 days of breathtaking cricket, perhaps we shall witness something historic.

India have no one to blame but themselves! Present pitches like that, all you have to do is win the toss. Play in Australia, you cover the whole gamut of skills. Gabba will be quick and seam, and then deteriorate and allow spin, same as SCG and Adelaide. The mindset that India and their coach has, only perpetuates this fact; i.e put a pitch forth that is dusty straight from day 1. Only South Africa and Australia face this fact when touring. But as a result, India help strengthen us both, and indirectly weaken themselves when they leave the motherland. Kumble has helped perpetuate this. It has nothing to do with facing spin, but all to do with the condition of the pitch which is presented! Both teams have to play upon it....yes! But whomever winds the toss helps their percentages unfairly. Until this lesson is learned, you will never gain true worthiness in crickets annals; play by the true notions of the game; a fair and just balance, for both teams, irrespective of home ground.

Yes, It is only 1 match. But, as an Aussie fan who watched our team being flogged repeatedly in the S/C pitches from India to UAE to SL, it couldn't have got any better. I never thought of such a result even in my wildest dreams. But, boy! didn't the Aussies put in a show that we can remember for a long time coming. Not because we won the match. But, by the way we won it. Aus spinner (s) trumping Indian spinners.

No excuses, no reasons. We lost fair and square. To a team that outplayed us in all the departments of the game! Both the teams played on the same pitch and the toss has nothing to do with it. The only way forward is to forget this loss and plan ahead for the next three tests. Do not take outlandish decisions. Trust the core players of this team. And yes do not go for that extra batsman!! We suddenly cannot become such a bad side, submit to fatigue, cannot overcome the disadvantage of losing the toss or any other extraneous reasons! We did not bat, bowl and catch well and the Aussies did all of that better than us! Anyone for turning pitches for the rest of the series?? No one I guess. We are in a tight situation now. Prepare turners and our batsmen do not play well. Prepare batting pitches and we not have the bowlers to take 20 wickets on a true pitch! Its a question of showing character and coming back into the series.

One swallow does not make a summer is what I can say to all the chest thumping aussie fans. Its been 4502 days they have won a test in India until this one. I still feel O'Keefe was a fluke and the fact is both the aussie spinners were  wallopped in the India A game. So overnight they simply can't become amazing..Flukes happen once in a while and  that has happened. I will be extremely hard from here mate.

I see Improvement from the Indian team. They added 2 more than their 1st innings score :P I'm an Indian, but I never liked the concept of preparing pitches suiting home teams. Guess BCCI realises and lowers their pride a little. India just tasted their own medicine. Hope to see some good pitches in the upcoming matches. Mr. Pune curator, Not a good pitch for a test debut. Indian weaknesses were hidden until now. Now they are exposed and smacked on their face. Kohli Brainfreezed by SoK??

simply pathetic display by team India.... Reckless and shameless...How steve ocoefee and layon outbowled and outclass the so called no 1 and 2 Ashwin and Jadeja...

Congrats to australia for an amazing vicotry and it will take some time to recover from deep wounds for me and my fellow country man

After Kohli was out I stopped watching the game. Never expected IND to collapse in both innings this way. Is it called a home advantage (or dis-advantage)?

Poor bowling with good batting can save the game, but good bowling with ordinary batting can't save games. This game is an example

Why do people say the toss is important? Aussies scored more in their second innings, pitch remained the same across the 3 days. Sour grapes? Why make pitches so awful that the match result is dependent on the toss?
 What a problem for curators of next match. Can't prepare spin wicket because India can't play spin. Can't prepare green top wicke because India can't play pace and swing. Can't prepare flat track as Ashwin...    
Kohli can't play good quality spin. He struggled vs Monty and Swann. SA had mediocre spinners but on raging turners, Kohli flopped again and now on another turner, he looks clueless. Bashing doubles against hapless spin attacks on feather beds is his speciality. If SOK plays in India he will take fastest 250  wickets in mere 20 matches.
The only thing that many Indian fans correctly predicted was that this game would be over in 3 days!

Where still not the spin kings,but you dont need big totals if your bowlers can use the conditions but it was ALWAYS going to be about Australia's Batsman against Jadaja and Ashwin, but nobody was looking at O'Keefe and Lyon, thats 6 out of 8 inning India has been bowled out for under 250 against Australia and South Africa at home.

Kohli faced reality now. He must either step down or must be shown door. He let team down due to his rash shot. People were comparing him with. He even can't play good spinner. When team is in doubt he is worse than any captain.

India  rejected DRS outright AFTER their series in Srilanka around 10 years ago where Tendulkar averaged under 15 runs due to DRS.
Indians accepted the reality of DRS only in 2016  inspite of some  minor flaws.DRS is still very good and fair for the game. Give Indians few more years so that reality of DRS sinks with them. Horrible use of DRS by Indians where they lost both their reviews inside 6 overs. Great win for one of the weakest Aussie team to have toured India..

I agree that India shall play with Bangladesh and Afghanistan to improve their cricket and then consider playing other nations. Poor show and rightly exposed Team India.

@Cricfan31164639 - Im a Sri Lankan and your statement couldn't be more absurd. SL never wins anything. India does.

India has lost this because of their catching and australians have won this match because of their catching. India have dropped 6 to 7 catches in this match where as australians have dropped none. Even against England india dropped many catches but it did not cost us because England also dropped many catches against us. India needs to improve on their catching if they want to win this series.

Playing in Pune shakes up the Indian lineup, gets changes, removes the complacent cricketers and gets in the batsmen who still have the hunger. Losing to Srilanka under seaming conditions in Pune, woke up the Indian Lineup. Here again losing badly to Aussies will get the lineup to get rid of complacency and start performing. There is no point making rank turners, that brings the toss into play. Make standard Indian pitches, something in the first half of day 1 for seamers, then becomes good to bat on for 3 days, then starts turning on 4 and 5. It gives opportunity to both batsmen and bowlers of Indian lineup to utilise skills. With rank turners even opposition mediocre spinners become more capable. Remember the extra seaming wickets of Lords and Perth, even Indian pacemen became potent and the host team lost.

See? When we are at full strength, nobody can match us. That why we are the best team in tests and we have won 5 WCs. Our appetite for winning, our never say die attitude, our attacking flair, our athleticism on the paddock and our winners mentality!!! We are superior because Aussies are superior people. Proud, brave, beautiful, strong and proud!!! Aussie Aussie Aussie Oi Oi Oi

Starc and SOK are the real match winners to take out form this test. And we paid price for the rank turners just like in 2012.

When u prepare square turners all the time that spin from day one and it finally backfires horribly lol

India sure improved their performance in the 4th innings by scoring 2 more runs than their 1st innings score.

What a Shame for home team to loose within three days against Aussies at home ground. This reflect professionalism of Team India at large where the same Aussies were crushed by SL and Pakistan at SL and UAE not too far.  ICC ranking system seriously has flaws.

Im proud of my Pakistan team how well they've played against Australia in Australia they were not bowled out for 105 and 107 in any innings of the test series

Complete admiration for the Australian team for coming out and playing the way they did.Always expected them to do this.India weren't up to the mark.I find really fascinating to see SL,Pak and Bang fans wanting to comment on something not involving them at all.Shows how much they respect wonderful cricket:P.The comments are so tailor made.It seems they were waiting for India to lose at home so that they can fire shots.It is just a waste of time as a neutral to even reply to them.I would take my hats out for them if they can come and comment commonly for good cricket irrespective of the team.Commiserations to the Indian fans.It's high time for fans to start appreciating good cricket and stop bashing the best players of the opponents.As far the match itself goes,Australia were right on top,while India were far from it.Absolute shambolic batting.Irony is they got out to balls that did not spin.Time to put heads down,work hard and come back strong.

Why are you all so surprised? This indian team relies heavily on kohli but this time he failed and india lost the test in 2 and a half days at home. Kohli had been bailing them out single handedly on a number of occasions in the last few series but this was not his test match.

Being neutral, i can assure you all that he will come back strongly, cant say much about the rest of the indian team. Australia played well considering they have a relatively new middle order and smith led them well and batted brilliantly. O keefe might get hammered in the upcoming tests but he would certainly remember this one for a long long time

India lost the first Test even before a ball was bowled. A dumb chairman of selectors with zilch Test experience is the single biggest reason to derail a team riding high on confidence with convincing victories. MSK Prasad and Kumble cop the blame for this defeat. Karun  scores triple century against a strong England bowling and Kumble gives him drinks man job in the next Test. Was Kumble scared of being branded a regionalist for  retaining Karun and keeping Rahane out? He is a timid coach. The eyeglasses  he wore in the 1990s gave him a scholarly look and misled many to brand him an 'intelligent' cricketer.  The 'brilliant' chief selector boots out Parthiv  who played two best ever Tests of his life. MSK has derailed Indian cricket momentum by compelling Dhoni to relinquish ODI captaincy and saddling Kohli with multiple responsibilities. Recall Dohni, Karun and Parthiv; drop Rahane, Saha and Jayant. India needs at least two lefthanders to counter O'Keefe. Gambhir or Yuvraj?

Luck or no luck Steve Smith showed how to bat in this game. Indian batsmen acknowledged Smith by showing how not to bat twice. This maybe a one of loss India may bounce back etc etc one thing India must understand and follow to core is the belief of getting your basics right ahh we are champions we are world no 1 whoever comes we will trash them whatever be the pitch or opposition its nothing in front of us. If they let go off this attitude they may do themselves a lot of good. This pitch was in no way unplayable as the Indians made it seem Smith Renshaw Starc all showed if you apply yourself and play you can still play on it. With regard to rank turners India are better off not making them as it has exposed India's weakness and how the opposition bowlers who are underrated compared to the Indian superstars have performed better and outclassed these super stars

Still cannot figure out how lyon and O'keefe went from being walloped in the India A game to being unplayable. One thing's for sure this is a big shock and the Indians would need to come back with vengeance. I still believe that this Indian team has high quality and will come back with a bang..Rahane should be dropped for Karun Nair

@ SHAMSHAN_GHAT: Sri Lanka played well but a few things went their way. O'keefe got injured and was out of the series on the 2nd days play. SL won 3/3 tosses and we had some dead wood in our side which has since been pruned and replaced with some vigorous new shoots. If that series was to be replayed now I think you'd find it a bit tougher.

India should prepare dead wickets in the rest of the matches where they can at least draw the matches let alone win.

WELL DON TAEM Australia Do not leave or breathe India at home many Congratulations India need M S not kohli very nervous not worth

In conditions that should have been most suited to Indian spinners, india  have been crushed to pulp. We have failed in all 3 departments of fielding batting and bowling. Only positive take away was the performance of Umesh Yadav.

All these days, we tasted only victories in our home soil.  Win or lose is a part of the game and sportingly we have to accept the defeat.  We have got very strong batting line up and they all crumbled like a pack of cards.  It is just one occasion.  We may be  over confident after winning the series against New Zealand, England and Bangladesh.  This may happen in any kind of sports.  We need not curse our players for their poor applications with  both bat and  the ball.  Toss and umpires' decisions were also crucial in this match besides our fielding lapses.   Admit the defeat gracefully.   Come back strongly.   All the best India !  Ramesh Nagarajan - Chennai

Never ever prepare spin pitch against the visiting teams - Australia / England which is affecting Indian spinners.. 
Batting is getting worse every test series & just one 50 opening partnership in last 2 years & as well selecting Ishant Sharma which is the main area of concern unaddressed by BCCI/Coach/Captain.. 

Battling needs to be strengthened.. Try out Shreyas Iyer/Rishab Pant/Parthiv/Karun Nayar/Panchal/Sheldon Jackson/Vijay Shankar..

Pace bowling need to be strengthened.. Try out Ankit Choudary/Natarajan/Siraj/Bhumrah/Milind/RP Singh..

Kohli's captaincy crumbles under pressure. Just showed in this test match. When things were going fine, he was basking under the glory. He has made glaring mistakes in the match. When Aussies were about to be dismissed close to 200, old ball swinging and turning, he changed the ball. It gave Aussies extra 50-60 crucial runs, more than that, the confidence and momentum moved towards them. Chasing a wide delivery when wickets are down shows his maturity. He didn't do anything in this match. Both Innings he got out showing immaturity and poor judgement. Imagine if they lose the series against Aussies, it would be a huge blot on Kohli's short term as captain. He needs to bite the bullet and get in young blood to replace the old and tired batting lineup, especially at the top and the lower middle order.

New Season, New series , new opponent .. we can expect result to change... there is nothing wrong in it.But they could have fought well at least in the second innings.. Australians exposed Indian batting weakness against quality spin bowling.. Pune is not lucky ground for India most of the times. Indians need to work really hard on their batting and their  fielding for the rest of the matches..

Perhaps if a usual Indian wicket was produced India could have competed. But if they had done that they probably wouldn't have had as much success as they have had up until now. A poor wicket brings the weaker team into the game.

karun nair get 300 runs on his last test.But he could't  get chance in eleven. Parthiv played well against who not include in Fiften.

Shreyas Iyer can at least play spin at the top order as he showed against Nathan Lyon and Steve O'Keefe in the India A game. Karun Nair has shown he at least has a clue to playing spin bowling at home unlike Ajinke Rahane, whom is completely clueless. KL Rahul simply isn't experienced or mentally strong like Parthiv Patel would be and was against England when India needed a lift, P. Patel will fight for every innings, unlike KL Rahul whom will perform once every five tests but simply is not consistent throughout a series. I have said without the 199 in Chennai KL Rahul would have been dropped, when compared to P. Patel whom averaged 65 against England without playing one exceptional batting score his highest score in the series was 71 which speaks volumes about his consistency he was simply brilliantly consistent unlike KL Rahul whom was averaging 11.33 in the first two tests was poor. Murali Vijay should make way for Shreyas Iyer as he only has positive energy.(part2)

India and Kohli have been put in their place. The simple fact is India expected life to be too easy and are going to pay a 4-0 series lose if they continue to play KL Rahul, Ajinke Rahane and Wriddhiman Saha. I would immediately replace A. Rahane with Karun Nair as he showed he can at least play spin bowling something that Rahane has struggled to do throughout the home season. KL Rahul simply hasn't been the rock at the top of the batting order however and should be replaced immediately with Parthiv Patel, Murali Vijay has at times been consistent but needs dropping to allow a younger man in Shreyas Iyer to start his career, it looks like the end of the road for Murali Vijay. Only two of the top  five in Virat Kohli and Cheteshwar Pujara deserve to be selected for the second test, on recent form. Virat Kohli will consistently fail in this series as he simply doesn't have a good enough technique to be a great test cricketer and will most likely end this series with a 30 average.(part1)

A team like SA now also have good spinners and will do the same next time they are in India. The tactic of preparing rank turners will now backfire on them. Their best bet is to develop good seamers to compete away.

The winner of the weakest team award has to go to India for the world's worst performance. My under elevens team could  do better than India!
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!. SO GET THAT INDIA!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

This is disastrous for India.  Their confidence will be shot.  Players will start playing for their spots.  Will take something extraordinary to even the series let alone win it.  Australia now has the decided advantage in this series having totally outplayed India.

Shreyas Iyer can at least play spin at the top order as he showed against Nathan Lyon and Steve O'Keefe in the India A game. Karun Nair has shown he at least has a clue to playing spin bowling at home unlike Ajinke Rahane, whom is completely clueless. KL Rahul simply isn't experienced or mentally strong like Parthiv Patel would be and was against England when India needed a lift, P. Patel will fight for every innings, unlike KL Rahul whom will perform once every five tests but simply is not consistent throughout a series. I have said without the 199 in Chennai KL Rahul would have been dropped, when compared to P. Patel whom averaged 65 against England without playing one exceptional batting score his highest score in the series was 71 which speaks volumes about his consistency he was simply brilliantly consistent unlike KL Rahul whom was averaging 11.33 in the first two tests was poor. Murali Vijay should make way for Shreyas Iyer as he only has positive energy.(part2)

I predicted 2-1 Aussie and its gonna be true.  KL,VJ,Rahne,Jayand are all falt pitch batsman.. so Ind cant win against quality side

Well played australia..but some arrogance from aus fans isn't going to award them the series..if aus is such an unbeatable team then how come they couldn't beat SA in their home soil for last 3 series from 2008

in a way it was a good wicket. aussies got 500 plus but unfortunately indian batting was below par and look like they can't play spinners.

What can you say? This was not a loss for India but an absolute belting.  The "worlds best batting side" were trounced by the "worst Australian side to tour India", one that should be playing "against Indian Ranji Cup sides" as some have said. Cricket is a funny game. The toss was important but Smith has lost so many he was bound to win one. However, this was a sub-standard pitch and the Indian cricket Board needs to stop trying to make these dry unwatered pitches to advantage the national team.  They, and the visiting sides, deserve better. o'Keefe was superb and Smith played a magnificent innings according to Indian commentators against quality spin bowling on a dodgy pitch.  One has to hope the next pitch has more balance in it so both sides can show their best. Congratulations to Australia on a comprehensive win. This was not their best side and changes need to be made.

Dang! Aussie have O'Keefe and Starc too, what pitch to lay for the next tests ? Here comes the 10 day batting mirror pitch !

It shows queen kohli is overated batsman and avg player. He is now blaming his team. so many records goes today in Wisden book. Congrats india for unforgotable performance. its treat for all indian fans who are hiding now.

India and Kohli have been put in their place. The simple fact is India expected life to be too easy and are going to pay a 4-0 series lose if they continue to play KL Rahul, Ajinke Rahane and Wriddhiman Saha. I would immediately replace A. Rahane with Karun Nair as he showed he can at least play spin bowling something that Rahane has struggled to do throughout the home season. KL Rahul simply hasn't been the rock at the top of the batting order however and should be replaced immediately with Parthiv Patel, Murali Vijay has at times been consistent but needs dropping to allow a younger man in Shreyas Iyer to start his career, it looks like the end of the road for Murali Vijay. Only two of the top  five in Virat Kohli and Cheteshwar Pujara deserve to be selected for the second test, on recent form. Virat Kohli will consistently fail in this series as he simply doesn't have a good enough technique to be a great test cricketer and will most likely end this series with a 30 average.(part1)

Does anyone know if there's ever been another occasion when ALL the wickets in a test innings have fallen to Oz spinners? I recall Warne/ Macgill getting 9 between them (Mcgrath got the first one to fall) but never all 10.

I had said that whichever team's batsmen played better against the opposing spin bowlers on this wicket would win the game.And so it turned out to be. The Dubai training has really helped the Australians. The fact that they have more left handed bats in their top order also helped them immensely. Steve Smith is without doubt the best batsman in the world.For those being churlish and calling him lucky, I would say that luck plays a major part of a great players' arsenal. Maybe India needs an X factor spinner like Kuldip Yadav or Chahal . Rahane should be rested for overseas tours and Parthiv Patel should be brought in in place of Saga.He could then open the batting with Pujara. I hope the curators for the rest of the tests produce wickets more like what was on view against England.I would love to hear what Saurav has to say now. And Gavaskar. No matter how great one was in one's playing days, making such outlandish predictions is foolish as Steve Waugh said so rightly.In hindsight, it may have been better if the batsman had played like in a 20/20 game !

Well, I must admit I thought the scores would be reversed but our lads really exceeded expectations in this match. O'Keefe was brilliant, Lyon and the quicks were also very good. Smith has become a complete batsmen, having scored in all conditions now. Smith rode his luck but that is part of the game, all batsmen need luck and the best ones take advantage of it. India bowled fairly well, Jadeja without much luck, he was very good, and Umesh was very very good, as was Ashwin in parts but their fielding and batsmen let them down badly. I expect India to hit back very hard, sometimes a loss after so many wins is not a bad thing, and will be a great lesson for Kohli and India. I still favour India to take the series but the Aussies are here to play. Us Aussies should enjoy this great unexpected win but also be wary of  India coming back, as they are a fantastic side.

Why India lost this test match? Ans- preparing a rank turner, allowing starc to get away in the first innings, not picking an extra batsman , poor use of DRS throughout the game, picking jayant instead of Kuldeep yadav, dropping smith in the 2nd innings. Now India is in a spot of bother. Another defeat and aus will retain the BG trophy.

Amazing result for the aussies. Well done SOK. His flat offies sometimes spin, sometimes don't...that's how the aussies were beaten by the Sri Lankan bowlers...Anyway, it's great to see that someone was taking notice in Sri Lanka and is passing this on to be utilised by the Aussie team.
Well, as espoused here ad-nauseam, if the aussies cannot play spin then one might think the evidence of todays' effort supports a different conclusion.
Also, as espoused here, if the aussie bowlers are such trash...what does that say about the failures of the Indian batsmen?

Wow! Where are all the Indian supporters who crow about beating us "arrogant Aussies" on their home pitches? Who ridiculed Australia every time we had a batting collapse over the past four years and told us it would be worse once we got to India?
You were right... Even at our worst, Australia has not lost 20 wickets for 212 runs in a single test... even in Hobart, Trent Bridge, Cape Town, we made more runs than that...
Oh, and your number 6-11 batsmen in this test contributed a total of 32 runs!!! 32 runs from 12 individual innings!!! That's only one more run than Mitchell Marsh made in the second innings.
Like I said. Wow!

333 reasons why India is not the best team in world cricket. The recipe for negating their dry wild spinning pitches has been found out. Brilliant game, brilliant selection, brilliant tactics team Australia! Game on! Ashwin and Jadeja made to look very ordinary by O' Keefe and Lyon.

If India had won the toss and batted first, result might have been the reverse. This reminds pain of SA when they toured India in 2015 and couldn't win the toss and batted 1st in entire 4 test series of low scoring and eventually lost the series 3-0.

Well done Australia. Good luck to you . Please beat India 4-0 on their soil and write name in the history books. God help you in beating India.

instead of murali vijay and wriddhiman saha bring shreyas iyer,  karun nair,  for wicket keeper take risabh pant

Congratulations to team Australia. Beating India so comprehensively in their own backyard is quite an achievement. India has just been humiliated by the thoroughly professional Aussies on a pitch that was tailor made for their own spinners. Smith and O'Keefe have been simply sensational. Best of luck for Australia for the rest of the tour.

Pathetic DRS reviews by India,  could sense their nervousness and pretty much summed up their approach in this game.

Some hard learnings to take. Take people on current performance and merit. Vijay and Rahane are not meant to be playing. You can't keep people just because they performed once over a period of time. Second; don't keep newcomers like mukund  for warming the benches. Third; players like kl rahul who can't fit in different forms don't need to be in team. And last; look for a good third spinner who can get some turn like Lyon and okeefe got.I am sure we need to trust kohli further and being a sensible man he will go with best deserving 11 rather than personal comfortable 11.

Well done done India . They have been innovative and discovered 2 1/2 day test cricket at home like they earlier did on overseas tours.

congrats to Aussies the whole team effort.specially to SOK who outclass, outmatch and more over outplayed India. brilliant and outstanding performance by Aussies.great team work by all team mates.once again congrats to Australia for their comfortable win in test in Asia.

A much needed reality check for team India. I think india are also exhausted playing so many tests at home in one season. Well played australia, smith and o keefe. I think ishant should be replaced by kuldeep, jayant should be replaced by nair in the next test. U cant count ashwin, saha and co as batsman. Kohli needs to play nair as an extra batsman. A day to forget and hoping India will bounce back in bangalore.

No doubt there will be a rush of watering cans and hose sales by the BCCI in Bangalore. Great come uppancefor producing a totally unacceptable pitch that even Shastri described as a day 6 pitch on day 1. The Indian brains trust should be ashamed of their disrespect for the game as they previously showed against SA in Nagpur. Perhaps the Supreme Court should also take an interest in the position of BCCI Chief Pitch Supervisor who apparently made 4 visits to Pune to ensure this abomination was doctored to order.
Congrat Aussie for a mega performance

Feel sorry for India, but Australians truly deserved to win. They were the better side by a large distance. The same pitch, the same conditions applied to both the teams and if anything India "should" have had the home advantage and so called advantage of being exposed much more to spinning tracks and quality spinners @ home. But at the end of the day, after all the analysis and hype, you have to perform on the day that matters. Some of the Indian batsmen just did not show the kind of temperament that Smith exhibited. I was getting a little sick of all the shows in Indian TV 24 X 7 - on how great the number one test side is and captain Kohli is unstoppable etc etc. I am sure it did not go to the team's head and being led by Kumble - I am sure he will not led complacency slip in. But this kind of rude awakening is what the doctor ordered. The team is capable of much much more, and I feel that they have potential to win this series if they keep a level head and just apply themselves.

Please Bring MSD back as Captain of Indian team
What a defeat  this is why India was ruled by foreign Rules for centuries

People are talking nonsense about changing or removing players like Vijay, Ashwin, Jadeja, Jayant Yadhav. One bad day and you want entire team to be scrapped. You people are insane. Teams have bad days. People have bad days. Opponents play well. Take those things into account. Tell me one person here who did not have a bad day at work or office. So your boss should have fired you all? 

I believe India will bounce back. I also believe that this will be a competitive series. It will not be 3-1 India or 3-1 Australia. It will be 2-1 either India or Australia.

pune is always a bad pitch for home teams look Rising pune supergiants,Pune warriors India,also look india'srecord in pune in odis.All this says enough for pune

well aus got lucky they won the toss lol. They won only one game, series is not done yet my friends!

So long to over rated Indian side. Using terrible home conditions to their advantage. World 1 and 2 failed on rank turner. Overrated Kohli being schooled by hard working Smith.

@Dunger.Bob, I agree on Lyon, lots of chances popped up off his bowling today, they just didn't always go to the fielders.  SOK bowled brilliantly but all those right handers create a perfect storm for him, they really had to do nothing more than bowl accurately.  I thought Ashwin and Jadeja tried a bit too hard for wickets at times and their batsmen also showed no intent at all really which again made it easier. It's not always the case but  for the Aussies this was truly about getting stuck in and scoring before you get the one with your name on it.  I couldn't fault  any of our lads at all really.

lol, at least Pakistani team took their tests to the end despite loosing 'in Australia'. The only-home-champion myth is coming true for India I guess.

The sweetest victory of all!! Thankyou India, from some of your fans, to arrogant past players, to the BCCI's manipulation of world cricket and especially the narrow minded ordering of doctored pitches, thankyou for making this win so special! Not only will there be no whitewash of Australia this series, even if we do go on and lose, we have shown every other team in the world that India is not unbeatable at home, that now YOU will be the hunted and always under pressure! Good luck for the series, may the best and most deserving team win!

Just show how important is Ashwin with bowl and bat for India. India got crushed on the second day itself. Getting out for 100 in the first Innings on Indian Pitches is like surrendering the test match. After that it was downhill all the way. Next Match - following Changes are needed. A good opening partnership is vital. Vijay looks out of sorts. If Rahul is injured, only then Vijay has another chance. Get someone in form to open, A Mukund needs to get a chance to open. Jayant Yadav needs to go, he has no confidence against the Aussies. Kuldeep Yadav needs to play. Ashwin is not doing well since last few test matches, we need 3 quality spinners. Ishant Sharma needs to be dropped. Get Bhuvi to bowl if pitch has something for swing bowlers, if it's another flat pitch or dust bowl, then bring in Pandya, he will be able to contain and bowl some cutters. It would be tough decision, but for spinning track get Nair instead of Rahane.

Well done Aussies. Not an AU fan. 
India scored 2 runs more than their first innings, saved 2 days that's huge achievement.
After this series whitewash can we call Zimbabwe for a home series and boost the ego of the bruised stars?
Rahane-not a test material.Jayant Yadav probably can go to club cricket. Ishant- been a baggage for years and with IPL snub he must know the writing on the wall.Saha- enough is enough,can't bat.
MSK Prasad,the slector, famoulsy backed Saha before the team selection when both Saha and Parthiv Patel were competing for the spot.Parthiv is a handy bat and has proved it few times.
Enjoy the success AU and may you have more 3 day test wins in India,which is a real possibility.Chill

Great win by AUS - they thoroughly outplayed IND in all facets, and their fielding was great. AUS will need to keep this up to have any chance of winning the series. Smith will continue to score runs - he's a class act and will be hungry to lead from the front. Congratulations to O'Keefe on a remarkable performance.
IND were way below par this Test and may have under estimated AUS - they will definitely bounce back in the 2nd Test and Kohli will lead from the front (reckon he'll make a big 150+ score in the next test). Looking forward to the remainder of what I hope will be a competitive series - I'd love to see AUS win this series, but I reckon 3-1 IND or 2-all are far more likely.
Cheers

Superb.  Well done Australia.  A 333 run victory inside 3 days in India - its massive.  India are mentally strong but everyone knows the Aussies are the masters at the mental game and they will use this event to their advantage for some time.  But Kohli has the character and skill to muster the troops - and he is going to have to do that very quickly - ultimately he will need to lead the way.  O'Keefe is the hero but I think credit must be given to Smith who I have said before will prove to be one of the all time great Australian captains.

@ Adijais, i think now curators will prepare surface like which used to be against england. But momentum is with Australia. So it will be great to see next three matches. But my inner feeling says India will sure bounce back and win 2-1. On the other hand If Australia's all batsmans starts scoring well than it will be 1-1. But for that they need to get rid of M. Marsh he is replica of moises henriques, who cant bat cant bowl.

where is the famed Indian batting line up torn apart by an average irregular steve o'keefe. They couldn't even manage a score of 150 in either of the inns. Learn lesson from Sri Lanka how they thrashed Aussies with a young side.

Well played Australia from an Indian fan.  
What i dont understand is that why change a winning formula of normal Indian pitch with a square turner when normal Indian pitch fetched all the wins in the last 10 matches or so.  Exact same thing happened in 2012 series vs Eng when after winning the first test at Ahemedabad, MSD complained of slow pitches and asked for sq turner at Mumbai and Kolkatta and in both matches we lost heavily (not as big as this one though).  With traditional pitches, the match will be in the balance at least for 4 days and you get a chance to come back into the game.  This look very much like Lords match vs Eng in 2014, when the greenest pitch backfired for Eng.
Hope the other pitches for this series are normal Indian pitches.
In terms of team combination, Jayant should be replaced by Kuldeep Yadav and the rest are ok.  For Aus, everyone played really well except Marsh bros.  I think MM should be replaced by Maxwell.  The new opener is a very good find.

Wonder that how both openers use DRS in first 5 overs that too when it was absolutely out? Their selfish costed India a lot.

India's performance also puts into perspective that how well Pakistan played in Australia. They did not lost or were bundled for 105 or 107 in any two innings of a test match. The hype around Indian batting is an urban myth. The self proclaimed King was outdone by spinners and can learn from Steve Smith..Mind you, David Warner did not even fire in this test match and he is not a man to be kept quiet for too long. Furthermore, Shaun Marsh would be out and Khawajah will make an entrance. Now, that Pakistani origin cricketer has got lot to prove against India...@Gregory: Mate, thanks for heads up but I will appreciate if you do not take your walk in peak hour in George Street as I am not sure if I can keep up with that visual!Time has come for India to get rid of Saha, Ishant, and Rahane...Muarli  and Rahul are also on thin ice.The signs were there when India could not beat B'desh convincingly. India has feasted on easy teams and poor batsmen of spin. Go and prove against Younis and likes

Nah Gregory. You analysis of the state of the game at 9/2015 suggests your recommendations for change may not come to fruition. Although I am no fan of either Marsh, they will not change a winning side. Khawaja has not proven to anyone that he can score runs in slow turning conditions? And why would we need a 3rd spinner? If Lyon and OKeefe can't do the job why would an inferior spinner succeed. India made that mistake in this test

Well done done India . They have been innovative and discovered 2 1/2 day test cricket at home like they earlier did on overseas tours.

By the way, 2 sessions can be worst, it's alright. We shouldn't judge IND based on only one test, it can happen. They will come back for sure. on the other hand, AUS played brilliant CRICKET, well done guys.

this was the first loss in home season after 17 test .Regarding Bangladesh they dont even deserve test status as there  bowler are incompetent to take even 10 wicket of india  forget 20

This is why I like the Aussies. They are very professional and fast learners. They learned very quickly from what happened in SL and lankans were very lucky with that series. The same thing could have happened to lankans for producing dust bowls.

love this match. Australia win over an overrated side winning with helping condition. Indian commentator failing to give credit to hardworking Aussie players

Kudos to the Aussies. Unimaginably poor batting display by the Indians, notwithstanding the nature of the wicket. They were uncharacteristically hapless in the field too. But I still wonder if the toss had anything to do with this sort of a result. Would we have been able to amass 260, batting first?

Well done done India . They have been innovative and discovered 2 1/2 day test cricket at home like they earlier did on overseas tours.

@ Jose: I've got a funny feeling that todays report will beat yesterdays effort. They'll be coming out of the woodwork from absolutely everywhere to bless us with their wisdom I'll wager. .. ps, while I'm elated, I promise to do my best to keep it real and I definitely don't intend to get nasty about it. It's only a game mate.

Nikhil, my point is on such kind of tracks toss does matter because England got flat tracks and still lose because of no variety in their bowling. I am sure in next venues pitches will be like England series and the ultimate result will be 2-1 at either side.

The wicket is really bad, very bad and to score on that wicket 260 in the 1st innings is something amazing and the foundation for winning is laid there. India should have dismissed them around 150. To add fuel to the fire, conceding 285 in the 3rd innings is ridiculous. Here Ashwin has let the team down very badly, not withstanding his 7 wickets. On this pic he, should have taken 15 wickets for almost nothing. Playing Rahane in place of Karun, somehow Rahul thinking that scoring freely is what is test match, 5 Batsmen instead of 6 could be the some of the reasons. Virat should know that Horses for courses is what is meant by strategy and can't say that I don't care for opposition. Let us play with 6 Batsmen and these 6 should be in the team based on current form not on reputation. One biggest caution: LET ROHIT SHARMA continue to heel his injury and don't make the cardinal sin of having him in the eleven.

Indian cricketers should only play IPL and Indian fans should only watch IPL. That's real cricket for you. You leave test matches to real professionals , not full time fashion models or TV ad men and part time cricketers.

Test cricket is about mom entum, Aus winning first test match easily. That means they are going to win this series 4-0 if dust bowl wickets are prepared in next 3 test matches. They know how to bat and ball on dust bowl. It will be very hard for india to beat Aus this time.

I think we might already have a strong contender for the 2017 test bowling award sorted. Steve O'Keefe 12-70 vs India in India will be a hard one to top.

India may consider to postpone the remaining of the series to avoid further humiliation.  Instead, they can Invite Afghanistan to play the remaining 4 tests with.  It will be a good series and India may even have a better chance to win a game or two!

King Kohli demoted to Prince after the first innings. After second innings, taking up post as SOK's chamber maid.

Well who saw this coming? Not me Ill admit. I said beforehand, Aus side way to inexperienced to make any kind of impact in India...Indian spinners far to good in Indian conditions and now this! India blown away twice for barely 100 in each innings by excellent bowling by all their bowlers, especially OKeefe! Can Aus take series from here? Well I wont bet against it...

Remove him, remove that batsman, remove that bawler doesnt make any sense. Australians just played well and won the match. That doesnt mean Indian selection is poor or they played poor. It can happens to every team. Congrats Australia, you the beauty!

australia spinner o koffe he looks like a normal spinner, if indians even cant even handle him in indian conditions,  what they gonna do aus,  eng,  nz,  s. a,  conditions where every ball bounces at chest height

I stand by my words that Australia will win the series. India's performances in India are a fallacy. England is one of worst teams against spin bowling. Pakistan thrashed them in UAE and even drew them in England. New Zealand is not much better than England especially in batting. India's only credible win was against SA in India but SA batted well, however,they did not have a spin bowler to match India. The hype around India's ranking is all a hot air. Jadeja is not much better than a part time bowler outside India but in India, he is a legendary spinner. Ashwin and Jadeje feasted upon easy batsmen as they never had to bowl to Misbah, Younis,Azhar Ali, Jayawerdene,Sangakara. This lulled Indian fans into a la la land and dream has come down crashing. This has got to be biggest hiding for any home team in recent teams. Australia and SA are best teams in world and India is in middle of pack along with Pakistan, and England. Kumble was never a coaching material like Kohli is not a captain!

A Brexit-like result in the first test match! All the pundits got it wrong in this match - especially Ian Chappell. I wonder if the result will remain Brexit-like at the end of the series.

Kohli dismissals is a player mentally weak.
This team is the weakest team Australia has played in six months.
Can't see India challenging Australia on any pitch with this team or captain.

For all their prowess, both Ashwin and Jadeja were found wanting when it came to taking wickets. Cant help but remember the match against Pakistan in Bangalore in 1986, where Iqbal Qasim was the wrecker; the trick being NOT TO SPIN TOO MUCH.

Congrats to Aussies for winning this test. Keefe bowled better than Indian spinners. But India's batting was the reason for the loss. Hope Kohli understands that Ishant, Rahane are mere passengers in the Indian team.

this wriddhiman saha reminds me of nayan mongia,   just keeps wicket not even a decent batsman, in those days when mongia used to play,  india were losing everywhere,  that time totally team depends on sachin

Wow. Even the most optimistic Australian fan wouldn't have predicted such a comprehensive win in this game. Well played Australia, to go to India and not just win, but utterly and totally dominate the entire test. Impressive and awesome. 

Well played Australia. They had the right strategy of playing the underdogs. It's going to be difficult to beat them. Their spinners have the confidence of going through the Indian Batting Lineup on turning pitches. Indians are now not sure of what kind of pitch to make. India was complacent coming into the test match. Ashwin has been below par since a few test matches now. Few of the batsmen are not in form and are in the team just because of their reputation. Vijay's shell life looks over. Fresh Blood upfront is needed for the long term. Rahane looks rusty, he needs more match practise at the domestic level. I think he has been brought back from Injury too early. He is important for the batting line-up. If India lose the series with Rahane doing well, it might be difficult for him to come back. He should be playing more on seaming wickets than turning ones. Nair played the spinners well with his sweeping ability. Jayant Yadav doesn't have any confidence after coming back from Injury.

If India keeps making wicket like this in their favor, all Australia needs is O'Keefe and bat for 1 innings!

I am an Indian fan and very disappointed with this performance.  Non subcontinent teams can't play spin but they can play fast bowling. 
Seems like India can neither play spin nor fast bowling.  Today it was evident. Our so called spin king were beaten by spinners. 
It's a fact now, No team can play spin nowadays including India. 
Sachin, Sourav, Dravid, Kallis etc that was the last generation which was capable to play on spinning track. 
RIP

Inexperienced players like renshaw and handscomb played better cricket than experienced players like rahane, pujara and kohli...happy india lost the match...its a lesson for them to lower their heads and play some sensible cricket...and please for god sake drop rahane..he is in no form...

India need to learn how to play proper test cricket by providing good pitch. I thought India play spin better than Australia but their mediocre batsmen & spinners failed on their backyard. Indian batsmans could learn how to play spin by watching the aussies batsman from last 2 innings.

Bangladesh haven't improved they have lost a test match with the minnows, they should have drawn atleast.

@VENUSIDVIN what happened to them later did india thrash them ever? They were always a threat no india batsman could ever play Akhtar freely always shaky

still a horrible test wicket. pune and India cricket should be ashamed. so very glad that Australia have beaten them.

India could not beat Bangladesh and took the game to 5th day. NO wonder they were beaten within 5 days. Next time make road pitches and try to win matches or may be give up test cricket and play with AFG, IRE and Oman. Where is the indian fans?

Current team can do no better anymore, i feel J Yadav, Rahul, Nair, Kohli, Manish Pandey, Pant, V shankar, Ashwin, Jadeja, Pandya and U Yadav looks somewhat better, somewill have some other preference. But i personally feel we should overcome the failures of Saha, Rahanae, I Sharma for sure, i am not pretty much impressed with Vijay and Pujara even, there is no sensible batting from them even. Our batsman does not even how much the ball can spin even. Inorder to drew the other three left out matches in a series, we should go and prepare the flat pitches where the ball should not spin at cost. There is no other way because our batsman cannt bat spin as well fast. We have lost all because of no front leg forward footwork,  we have not batted like champions here, we have batted like cowards. I sharma's inclusion cannt be justified. As a whole we have to go back to domestic again to get trained. Unfit-11 is in India's playing 11 and fill-11 is awaiting their chances, credit goes to board.

Starcy will prove he is going to be one of the greats, Josh is our next Mcgrath, Davey confirmed he is the best opener in the world, Smudge is second only to Bradman and is the best captain ever. Garry is Warne!! We are superior because Aussies are superior people. Proud, brave, beautiful, strong and proud!!! We are invincible. Australia is the land of champions and heroes!! Aus to win at a canter Oi Oi Oi

"Surprisingly no aussie supporter is talking of the toss, how crucial it is on Indian pitches. Lol"

If pitches are prepared to suit test cricket and not the Indian team, then the toss becomes less important.

Australia didn't prepare the wicket, an Indian curator did, hoping the pitch he provided would help India win.

Well done Australia. I remain to be convinced that O'Keefe is a 12/70 bowler though.  On any pitch. He will probably get MoM though in some ways the contributions of Starc (both innings) and Smith (second innings) were more important.

Grapes are sour, honestly did not expect our Australians to win so comprehensively, this is like an activity host nation is famous for. India has been molested at home by the visiting team and  in conditions tailor made to suit home team. This team has prepared well. The series are not over, I believe the home team will bounce back, not too soon as the pain caused by bruising will take a few games to heal. Good luck game on. Arrogance is not a good quality to have India. So much for the Aussie on field behavior did not see a single distraction, all focus. Thanks for watching is tough team prove a point.

BHUSHANB, very sporting comments. Respect. And at the end supporting your team regardless. May the best team win.

Wow!!! This young Australian team played out of their skins and thrashed India! They deserve all the praises coming their way. Respect from an Indian fan (I believe Indian fans should stop making excuses and appreciate the commanding performance from the Aussies). This augurs well for a cracker of a series. India will come back hard, but this Aussie team will not be easy conquer after what happened in Pune.

Congrats to India for surpassing first innings score. Many cricket pundits would have already questioned about the test status had it been other teams like Bangladesh. Looks like they dig the canal and brought spinners.

fantastic victory Aussies. Remind the home team that its about ability not undue advantages. Steven Smith proves his might over ordinary Kohli

This Australia is not as good as it seems. We Lankans White washed them not long ago. But this Indian team is weak, losing to an ordinary team. If Lankans played we would have White washed the Aussies again.

Well done. 2 runs more than their previous score. Outstamding batting. Smith was selfiah to score a century othwrwise this test could jave finished in 2 days.

WHOA.....Did something backfire here? Like a pre engineered spin trap wicket designed and constructed to win toss, score big and skittle out opposition twice?... If  the home side win all remaining matches from here the damage is done and the visitors could feel  they have won the war....... the war against dust bowls ..that is........   
 Test cricket remains the king of all the formats.....

India need to learn how to play proper test cricket by providing good pitch. I thought India play spin better than Australia but their mediocre batsmen & spinners failed on their backyard. Indian batsmans could learn how to play spin by watching the aussies batsman from last 2 innings.

Call me Nostradmus because I predicted India would get less than 150 in each inning before the match started. The context is that I made two random predictions the day before that came good  so I thought I'd chance my arm. I am now being asked to make specific predictions by all sorts of people.

No 1 test team and such a brilliant performance. One batsman scored 64 in the first inngs. Take out his score and India got nothing left behind hahaha.
So happy to see that Aussies showed the true place of Indian team. Should play with Zimbabwe and BD only. India is good for those teams only haha

When was the last time a quality bowler like starc,hazel bowled just 2 overs in an innings.congrats smith & co for the intent ,courage & preparation shown to face the Kholi & co , Bcci who drooped low levels to win a match.
If kohli& co are world class then why can't you give fair pitches and prove your strength.
Usman Khawaja should replace shaun as he is a class act to demolish India 4-0 
O keefe and lyon will get more wickets than this crooked Ashwin who was made to look like muruli and warm
End of honey moon for queen Kholi and servant maid Ashwin .
See in champions trophy what these overrated indian team can do in 
england

Pretty much an innings defeat...who'd have thought it possible? Maybe will temper the arrogance of some of the Indian fans... "Best team ever" "we will win 4-0" "Kohli can win it from here" (after 1st innings). Should be a fun series from here on (in the CRICINFO comments too)... at least not too one-sided regardless of the final outcome. Watch out for a confident Aussie side in the next one

@ ALTAFPATEL: " Don't know what Jayant Yadav wanted to do by not taking run when India was 9 down and 334 runs needed, with 2 days left? " lol. He may have had his mind set on farming the strike and doing it on his own. Now that's what I call confidence.

If you want to see a fair contest. SA vs Australia.  It's no wonder each team has won away. May it stay the same

Over confident India paid the price without putting any single effort in Batting/Bowling/Fielding/without practice :-( 
Jayant, Ishant, Rahane shouldn't even get selected for domestic match and we shld never see them play for India again.. 
Left-arm quick Ankit Choudary bowls 145+ pace should be for 2nd test match for Ishant the worst Sharma..
Kuldeep Yadav should be in for Jayant the worst Yadav..
Parthiv/Shreyas/Panchal should be in for Murali the worst Vijay..
Karun Nayar should be in for Ajinke the worst Rahane..
Natarajan/Siraj/Milind should play resting Ashwin..

For all those who are shouting Nair should have been playing instead of Rahane, are doing so on the basis one inning of 300 by Nair. Going by the way Indian batting fell apart in this match, Nair would not have done much. Lets face it- if India's best batsman Kohli and Pujara failed, Nair was not going to be "the superman".

The selection committee ignored these facts and talent of the above players and that's why 13 years of legacy gone.

"Surprisingly no aussie supporter is talking of the toss, how crucial it is on Indian pitches. Lol"

If pitches are prepared to suit test cricket and not the Indian team, then the toss becomes less important.

Australia didn't prepare the wicket, an Indian curator did, hoping the pitch he provided would help India win.

Well, not only do I have to eat my hat, but I'll have to walk backwards, and naked, down George Street in Sydney!  I said that India would win by the third day when Australia was 9/205.  Fantastic result!  It's 100% the opposite of that historical snatching of defeat from the jaws of victory by Australia @ Edgbaston in 1981.  Well done Australia!

PS. Shaun Marsh should be replaced by Khawaja.  Mitchell Marsh earned a reprieve unless the selectors go for a third spinner, a move I'd recommend!  :-)

worst performance by indian batsman in homecondition. only half century. how suddenly performance become so bad.

Toss & Pitch! That's all to fix the outcome almost in India(Accept BD should had drown the only test).I wish, BD won the Toss! with having this very Pitch!.You never know, Taijul or Shakib or Meraz who may would been  "O'Keefe"!

Wisden Please enter this result in records book. it proves that india is no. 1 test team by pure luck and all indian batsman are avg players especially queen kohli who is 1000 times lower than weakest batsman in world.

Great victory for Australia, and congratulations to them. They have beaten India at their own game, which is quite remarkable. Amazing thing in this match was that while Aussie spinners were turning the ball square, our Indian spinners could hardly deviate the ball at all. What happened to  spin skills of Ashwin, Jadeja, and Yadav? India play their best cricket on pitches which don't turn square, and those kinds of pitches were offered during NZ and Eng. series. When ball begins to turn hugely, our batsmen simply don't have the skills to succeed. This series is beginning to remind me of 2012 home series against England, when Swann and Panesar defeated us at our own game. Kohli should tell the curators to create flat pitches for the next three tests, so that he and others can start scoring centuries again. Otherwise, there is a big danger that we will be whitewashed 4-0 at home! Karun Nair needs to be back in team, and Rahane needs to go. His test career is over.

lol i thought idia would have won in subcontinent  bcoz they r gods no  they won t stand any chance in overseas

A week before this match I said I'd be happy if we did just a touch better than the poms in the series. Well, we've already achieved that so I guess I should raise the bar a bit now. How about actually winning the series? Looked impossible 4 days ago, now I'm not so sure. The thing that's got me excited is we seem to definitely have the bowling to more or less take the pitches out of the equation. We have the spin to succeed on decks like this but we also have the faster pitches covered with our fast bowling. Don't forget about Bird. He's in the form of his life atm. Exactly where do India go from here? We must have them scratching their heads by now. .. who'd a thunk it? Not me, that's for sure.

@LOVEMYBHARATH so you tell me why Ind couldnt score on Day2 while aussies scored 280 in their 2nd innings(DAY 3-4)?

It was a bubble waiting to get busted. The whole number 1 thing was anyway a technical position, and not an earned position. How can a team be called number 1 when it failed to had lost like what recent 18-20 test matches of 28 they played outside India. And in our heart, we all know how these home victories were earned. By preparing third grade pitches against tough oppositions like SA and placid wickets against oppositions like Bdesh. This whole thing that Aus/Eng prepare green pitches when India visit abroad is a lie. Australia doesn't change the character of MCG pitch or Sydney pitch just bcoz Indians are playing there. Sydney remains a spinning track and MCG a good bounce track no matter what the opposition is. India on the other hand, changed the character of pitches like Mohali, Kotla, Pune just to win a test match.

my first comment in cricinfo but I have been reading comments since long time. I have seen cricket and following cricket since last 2 decades being an Indian. This match made me write a comment which I have been avoiding since a long time. Its amazing that ausies have won. Its not surprising to be honest. They have been a true professional team this time. They knew how to play out Indian spinners moreover they were sure where to bowl to Indian batsman. Taking nothing out of SOKs performance but lot of similar spinners have visited India but have not been able to produce such performances - not even Warne or Murali or Saqlain. But he did was mainly discipline. This is what makes Ausies different from other teams, consistent day in and out. We have to admire the way every generation ausie cricketers come up with something special. They are true champ  (5 times WC even) and certainly all time greatest cricket nation. I dont remember any other country actually walking the talk more them

@SOUTHIESAAR 
The umpires are ENGLISH not Australian. Therefore they are NEUTRAL umpires. IF you think that India's demise is purely down to unlucky umpiring decisions then you are well and truly are in denial.

If you are planning to kill the opposition with spin, then you need to select batsmen who can play spin atleast. gautam gambhir. ambati rayudu, kedar jadav or even rohit sharma are far better players of spin then this overrated guys like jinx rahane, monk vijay etc

And this also just in off the wire: one particularly dehydrated Indian cricket ground curator seen fleeing across the border to Pakistan, seeking diplomatic immunity.

Ind 1st innings 105 & 2nd innings 107 hahahaa massive improvement. Literally Smithy has outplayed the indian team 4-0 too easy

Not a bad effort from the "worst Aus team to tour India". 4-0 for the series ? - he might be right with that prediction but not to India. Best batsman - Smith or Kohli ? = Smith 2 Kohli 0 and he's lucky to get 0. Nasty wicket means win the toss - win the game.

Congrats to Australia on dominant victory. Well done done India too. They have been innovative and discovered 2 1/2 day test cricket at home like they earlier did on overseas tours.

Embarrasing !!! Utterly inexcusable performance doesnt matter how well we have played this home season this is shambolic !!!
Guess we Indian fans deserved this for thinking we would white wash Australia 4-0 !!!!!!!!

Stop criticizing Indian team they've improved alot they scored 2 runs more than they did in the first innings

Well done Aus. They were stung by SA home defeat and look at their comeback. Pak series resulted in two good finds of Renshaw and Handscomb. Should continue the winning streak.

@lovemybarath..you seem to have forgotten that Australia scored the highest total of the game in the 3rd innings....your logic is somewhat flawed ...lol

Still cannot figure out how lyon and O'keefe went from being walloped in the India A game to being unplayable. One thing's for sure this is a big shock and the Indians would need to come back with vengeance. I still believe that this Indian team has high quality and will come back with a bang..Rahane should be dropped for Karun Nair

the best scene is the sheepish look of king kong kohli when he bowled by O'keefe, All the indian fans laughed at faf whwn he got out same way to Jaddu in the SA series now laugh loud... tasting his own medicine... BCCI change the mind provide good pitch...

Repeat of perth 2008 that oz made it more fast and bouncy pitch and indian pacers enjoyed it and here india made it rank turner from day one and oz spinners enjoyed it..

thank you Australia, I have played and watched cricket for 30 years and have never supported you till now. Congrats from a kiwi

So rank turners presented by the guest and they got the taste of their own medicine and how bad ! Pathetically Terrible and  hopeless couldnt last even 40 overs and just barely managed just 100 n something ! What ails this team of bearded men with 500 plus totals and having centurions , double centurions and that too in their own backyard ?  With temperatures rising the tracks in remaining tests will be baked and will turn and reverse and will be interesting surely . Seems the panesar effect on Spin twins has come alive

What was that 4-0?????? Victory to Aussies inside 3 days!!! Me believed all that taunting from fans & especially from Bhajji have given India a flogging to remember!

Today our team prove how over confidence is damage our performance..!!! Our player never serious about what are they playing. if they observed the Aus batting then 2nd inning atleast watchable to indian fan. now i think VK think about changing squad specially rahul

OKeefe the road roller. Well supported by Lyon and seemers. Smith scored one of the finest century. Even home team hardly could get 100 aggregate in both innings, Smith did alone.

series is not over yet. One bad game and all are blaiming this number 1 indian side. 3-1 in favour of india is confirmed. mark my words

Well played straya! As an Aussie I reckon Dhoni was a better captain than Kohli. Atleast he was unbeaten against Australia at home. Australia will whitewash India this series.

Rahane is  only fit for IPL and local matches.Please give him a break and take NAir and Ambati Rayudu ,

@LOVEMYBHARATH.......... you may use the toss as an excuse but Australia still scored more runs with there second innings on day two and three than India did the whole game, if you penalise Australia all their runs in the first Innings because they were lucky at the toss, Australia still wins by 70 odd runs.

LOVEMYBHARATH  No Indian supporter talk about toss when they win.
Think about last test match with BD. you will get the answer.

@DECCAN_EXPRESS Rahul is the only batsman who showed some batting ability on india side. But  lets face india is good only on flat tracks. They are never good batsman against good spinners or pacemaker when pitch helps bowlers

Rip kong kohli, actress Ashwin.... Come on boys;Give up test cricket..Rather try to play t20 with associates like Afghanistan, ireland,oman etc...

Well...that is quite a thrashing... have to admit...no where to hide. Congratulations Aus for turning the tables around (against all pre-series predictions) and winning quite emphatically. Team India back to drawing board...may be a blessing in disguise to get back to ground... before the home run is over...the bubble is burst....Reality check....hopefully it will make them watch their back, bat with their head to the ground and remember this is TEST cricket where you have to be able to bat at least 90 overs in an innings. Once again congrats AUS, good luck IND in the next three. Still believe that IND can bounce back and take the series.

Alas!!! Indians could not outscore Smith's 109 in two innings at Pune. And less said about King Kohli and his ability to demolish Australia, the better it will be. After all, Indian fans consider Australian pitches to be roads, so they demean their own "King Kohli"...LOL...4-0 very much on the card as Saurav Ganguly predicted. As for Harbhajan he should try to get a cricketing brain before making outlandish 3-0 predictions.

Where is cricket analyst Harbhajan Singh who predicted a 4-0 defeat of Australia?  I would like to hear his analysis of this match. Lol!

lol best spiiner in the world ashwin, struggled to get wickets, he is so much over rated and over hyped

Woohoo !! Now that's the way to start a series in India. Fan-bloody-tastic ! .. nice to see Lyon get a few wickets too. He bowled pretty well and deserved some reward imo.

LOVEMYBHARATH India barely scored more than 100 in both innings, don't know how the toss would've helped them

India should now prepare pitches that would only support Ashwin and Jadeja or else Okeefe and Lyon could become the best Test Bowlers in the world.

All pakistani bashers first learn to debate wi I'm uae then we will talk yes team played badly and we will back our team at any cost that's why we are fans .

Hope India will learn from their mistake.Its just a bad game,need to concentrate on the series win.It remind me of India tour of Australia in 2003.I have full faith on India team that they will bounce back strongly.

This puts an exclamation mark on SL's 3-0 series a short while back. Good job by AUS here, IND's pitiful batting at home, against spin is shocking.

Don't know what Jayant Yadav wanted to do by not taking run when India was 9 down and 334 runs needed, with 2 days left?

Finally India surpasses its first innings score by 2 runs before getting all out 270 runs by Kholi was predicted unfortunately India could even make that score both innings combined be prepared for cement roads for next 3 tests as Indian team would want to show their batting might in next 3 tests

I want to know views of Harbhajan Singh after first test match? he was saying If Aus played well it will be 3-0 in India favor, i am seeing the other way round. Aus have very good spinners, batsman and fielders, seems like Teenage boys are playing test cricket with big boys.

Another point I cannot understand is every other country has a standard set of pitches they play on. In England you play at old trafford, the oval, lords, headingley etc. Likewise in aus Melbourne, waca, Sydney etc. so teams are well versed with the nuances of these pitches. Why do we have to play debut matches, that to the first of a series on a surface we've never played on before??! Not taking anything away from Australias performance, but so much for home advantage.

India wil win this series don't worry guys we have got 3 more matches to come and have got good batsmens  and bowlers then them so cheers

@ CHEESEVANTONDER  8:45 GMT: I'll admit to a tendency to support the selectors most of the time because they are far better placed to make their decisions than 99.9% of the mugs that post on here. They go to the shield games, talk to the state captains, are experienced f/c cricketers themselves and are generally just better than us. However, having said all that, and with the 20/20 vision of hindsight, it's hard to see why SOk hasn't been given more opportunities in the past. Very hard indeed.

Am I the only one wondering what happened to those Indian Cricket supporters who poked their fingers on any other test cricket matches. They have gone quiet today, haven't they!

India, An one man army. Kohli didn't play well and India lost. Same as that of 90's amd early 2000's. Only difference Kohli in sachin's place and Pujara in Dravid's place. Rest all useless.

@chestthumpers please tell me how this was the worst team ever to tour india,thanks for coming 1 zip

India will be back with a plan in the 4th Test when the series is lost already. If India lose to a better team at home then I wouldn't mind but India is losing because obviously they are not as well prepared. That hurts as a fan!!

Why do you say the toss is important? Aussies scored more in their second innings, pitch remained the same across the 3 days. Sour grapes?

@ CRICFAN10044827 - Sometimes turning a little is better than turning a lot. More likely to catch edges this way.

Very good bowling by the Aussie but not unplayable. Rahane, for all his ability against genuine quick bowling isn't just good enough on spinning tracks. Kohli isn't half as good a batsman as Sachin. Lyon and O'Keefe are quality spinners and we need the best Indian batsmen of spin in the team to tackle them. Doesn't matter if Rayudu is on the right side of 30 but he is India's best player of spin followed by Karun Nair. Mayank Agarwal is a brilliant player of spin as well. It might be a good idea, although unconventional, to get at least two of these batsmen playing in the next test in lieu of Murali Vijay and Rahane.

Indian here @BHUMIT..That's the whole point..U need the toss to win the match in dust bowls like this...Eng did win the tosses but the pitches were flatter ..Australia can defeat SA in SA!! SA can defeat Australia in Australia..But we need Pitches that suits Ashwin & Jadeja to defeat the opposition and if opposition has good spinners that will backfire...Its better to prepare pitches that holds for first 2 days that deteriorate and aids spinners in day 3,4,5.Otherwise Ashwin & jadeja will have figures what England seamers had in India series when they go overseas.

A lot has been said about Jayant not good enough for Team India. I hope he does not become the scapegoat for this loss. I agree he does not warrant a spot as the 3rd spinner in the eleven, but I sincerely feel he is a batsman first. I sincerely feel he is the 3rd best batsman behind Pujara and Kohli in this line up. I hope India seriously look at giving him one spot in the top 6. Cheers!

Just a bad day in office for India...even shoib akthar ajantha mendis had initially troubled India... Every one knows what happened to them later...Indian batsmen took them for a ride...I similar treatment to O'Keefe in next matches...just drop rahane and play Karin nair...Murali vijay is once in a blue moon scorer..need some body like sehwag..to blast on top...May be Rohit sharma a license to break free on top....what is Ishant sharma doing...similar in height to starc but no where near his talent..Bumrah can play instead of him...also irresponsible tailenders of Indian team...need to learn from Starc and English tailenders...put a value on your wicket..onlyvenugopal @gmail.com

AU should aim for a white wash.Its a terrific start for the series.India will be unable to recover from this drubbing.Ashwin and Jadeja were not unplayable on this wicket where as O'keefe and Lyon bowled within the areas with good control and variation,that's all it takes.
India have to show the door to few guys if they want to make any comeback.Drastic changes needed. India A team players needs to have a serious look in.Shreyas Iyer,Rishabh Pant.Karun Nair,Kuldeep Yadav. Rahane, Vijay,Saha,Jaydev Yadav should go. Ishant should be taken out as well and include Bhuvnesh unless Shami is fit.Overall very timid show by the Indian stars.
Needs to take drastic changes and realise Indian players can't play spin.Kumble can't back mediocre players like Saha and Rahane for long.

Yes it is only 1st game of series and Aussies are looking really strong to win the match but some Indian trolls whom were taunting that they'll whitewashed Aussie 4-0 for past 6months are now really upset and bitter and are making all sort of lame excuses.. They cannot comprehend to what is about to take place and now starting to rip into their team as well.

This superb performance from O'Keefe does present our esteemed selectors with a huge dilemma....what to do with Lyon when the conditions dictate using only one spinner?

Come on aussies, lets not start with the predictions, lets just leave the fortune telling to others, lets not put their team or players down like they do ours, lets talk about the positives and geeze there was plenty, to get a test match out of the way with Starc and Hazelwood having only bowled a handful of overs, now that could be very helpful later on the tour, secondly Austraia scored more runs in their second Innings on a turning pitch, another positive is Australia only need one more win to retain the Border Gavasker, and that's 8 inning out of 10 against South Africa and Australia at home that India did not make 250, Okeefe, Lyon, Tahir, Elgar and Harman have made them look poor against the turning ball, sorry couldnt help myself.

AUS TEAM FOR 2ND TEST: Renshaw, Warner, Smith, Khawaja, Hanscomb, Maxwell, Wade, Starc, OKeefe, Lyon, Hazelwood

I think people a being a bit harsh on Mitch Marsh, sure Maxi or Agar might be a better bet. But he's at least better than his brother.  What good is Shaun Marsh? He always fails in the games that matter and can't field, often dropping catches.  If you want to get rid of M. Marsh, make sure you get rid of that perennial waste of time, Shaun.  He's old useless, given way too many opportunity's and can't even bowl as his brother can.

Before the match begin, I mentioned that this match is all about proving the out of form and continue  failures of KL Rahul, Rahane and Saha. These three do not deserve to be in the test team. They must be removed immediately to save the series. There is strong unconditional support from MSK Prasad, Kumble and Virat for these players despite knowing they are out of form. There was no press conference after test  selections. They ignored the talent of Dawan, K Nair and Parthiv. Selection comitte must resign.

We can only attack and go forward as this is the way we have been brought up down under!!  We'll attack as per usual!!! Aussies are born champions . Aussie Aussie Aussie Oi Oi Oi

India prepared a third class wicket to suit their spinners yet got undone by the poison they Chose for the opposition, classic!

The pitch has been and is rubbish. India need to be reprimanded by the ICC again. It is no coincidence that it's decent pitches against England etc and rank turners against SA and Aus. If you think the pitch has been good, please remind me what the top Indian score on it has been. It is a pity that India would be so desperate to win to prepare a pitch like this, so seeing them lose on it is sweet. PS... the excuse that it's been dry doesn't work. Go buy a hose.

@ BHUMIT. ON  FEBRUARY 25, 2017, 8:47 GMT When England played, we were so strong , the toss did it matter. When Aussie last toured, we lost all tosses and it didn't matter. Now all of sudden, out of nowhere, Aussie won because of toss? Can't win with you guys.

Great preparation from aussuies , indian batsmans could learn by watching the aussies batsman from last 2 innings .

this makes the series  vry vry interesting ,well played Australia,and poor batting by kohli and company.

There is losing and there is losing without a fight. These performances are shambolic to say the least. Why aren't Indian batsmen realizing unlike their spinners who were producing prodigious turn, O K'fee is not turning the ball much. All his deliveries have either very little or no turn at all. No application or grit displayed here.

Bad drs reviews for batting team are not responsibility of the batter in question but the non-strikers.

Tip for the India fans....keep shouting that you're the best and perhaps the umpires won't hear the nicks :D and if you time the shouts just right you might distract the aussie fielders into dropping a few catches. So much potential for victory and all you have to do is carry on with your loud boastful claims. 
I do hope the Aussies win a test here though so we get less of the 4-0 comments.

The reaaon Australia is winning is that they won the toss. Kong kohli should practice to win tosses.

This time, it looks they seem to have done with bat & ball on real grounds with intent to win and utmost intensity. That shows in the results. I tip my hat for that.

However, I really think that India will regroup and we may be able to see some really competitive ones for the next three tests. At least, that is my hope, for the welfare of test cricket in general, and that of Indian cricket in particular.

AUSSIENSW - perhaps if you'd led by example and offered 'humble and contrite' congratulations after a depleted South Africa smoked you in your back yard you'd get the congrats. Sadly, your behaviour when beaten is as bad as the worst among them, not to mention your unbridled jingoism. As you sow, so shall you reap...

GLENNOZ..haha you just lost against South Africa, New Zealand, and sRI Lanka.and you WILL lose against India, that will be 4-0.

I am waiting for the moment later in the evening when Kumble announces "Guys, we just had ANOTHER bad day. Nothing much."

Time to say bye bye to our so called great indian fast bowler(according to our selectors) ishant who is nothing but a passenger in d team.
I still hav a hope tat pujara might play laxman like innings bcoz he is d only player in d team who can play  spin bowling on a rank turner like dis & win d match for India provided jayant & jadeja stick around with him.

Whilst it's great to see Australia heading towards a comfortable victory, I still think India will win this series, probably 2-1. Obviously a more competitive series than last time in India.

I think India has to have a good, hard look on their batsmen's techniques against spin. It is one thing plundering runs against ordinary spinners on somewhat batting friendly tracks( the ENG and NZ series) and another when facing  spin on a pitch with plenty of assistance. Still remember how they failed to chase 170 odd against SL in galle with Herath taking 7-48

@Cheesevontander - when the ball hits the wicket and its an Aussie batsman, umpires call not out. When it's an Indian batsman umpires call out. That's what I am referring to, "mate".

As for howler, Wade was clearly out caught behind. It is the entitlement of the Aussies and the English that they can do no wrong. But god forbid if an Indian umpire gets it wrong.

The DRS needs to be changed. Else the umpires call consistently going to one side will ruin the game.

the problem india is...there are no cricketers playing today.....only tne kings and gods and demi gods are playing. go king koli......lol...

Nathan Lyon has been out bowled by Keefe. Even on the SL tour last year, the loss of Keefe due to injury helped SL in the first test. I cant figure out why Warne, Taylor et al rate Lyon highly while disparaging Keefe? Keefe has a first class bowling average in the early twenties compared to Lyon whose bowling average is in the thirties? Is it that Keefe could have prospered as a test match spinner given the same number of opportunities as Lyon, and threatened the legacy of Australia's "world's best leg spinner"?

India has been outclassed in all departments of the game. 4 down in 2nd innings, Kohli is gone.. formality of next 6 wickets remains... Game Could be/ should be over today... Congrats Aussies.. 
What is most surprising? Aussie Spin attack winning it for them

Yes, we can give credit to Aus for playing well but, truth of the matter is, this is the most despicable display by Indian batsmen at home! Obviously they did not prepare for the series like Aus did. They thought they would win easy and were probably concentrating more on IPL auction!!

Good to see Indian fans acknowledge the Aussies and not complain about the toss like few overseas teams do after losing. India should improve as this Aus team looks well prepared. Let's be men and accept the defeat and look to win the upcoming matches

Aus team for second test- Warner, Renshaw, Smith, S Marsh, Handscomb, Agar, Wade, Starc, O'keefe, Hazlewood, Lyon. Go the aussies

This is now AUS game. Well played by them. superb effort considering post series doubts about playing on rank turners and spinners not better than India's. 1-2 such results will more likely make a change in India strategy to prepare such rank turners where ball starts spinning from day. Its simply unplayable after 2-3 days. Aus was lucky to win toss here and if it was India batting first we would have seen similar collapse from Aus. Eng had got a chance in recent series as they batted first in 2 matches but couldnt take advantage. India will come good in next game and i dont think they will lose another one like this.

Spinning tracks like these show how poor our batsmen are, not how much better the opposition spinners are IMO. We bowled reasonably well, fielded poorly and batted terribly. Australia scored more in their second innings than their first. Shameful display from our fellows. I've had colleagues loose their jobs for far better performances but then, we're not cricketing gods, just humble public servants. Well played Australia, enjoyed smiths knock and SOK's accuracy.

This is why Pak and even Sri Lanka are actually a far better team than India. India didnt lose this match, it is a hiding of epic proportions. An ordinary spinner like O Keefe a hero ? And they say Ashwin is great, now we know why

I want to know views of Harbhajan Singh after first test match? he was saying If Aus played well it will be 3-0 in India favor, i am seeing the other way round. Aus have very good spinners, batsman and fielders, seems like Teenage boys are playing test cricket with big boys.

India v Australia, 1st Test, Pune, 2nd day February 24, 2017
O'Keefe and Smith put Australia in dominant position
The Report by Brydon Coverdale
1086 Facebook Twitter
6644 shares 1086

What is shown above is 'cut-copy-paste' from yesterday's report, which went to the back-burner, after today's lunch repot.

India is struggling in its own soil after a long time. India has made a big impact in test cricket in the recent past. But unexpectedly, India is in trouble.Fielding has been sloppy. 3 catches dropped as smith capitalized the situation and carried his bat with a  cameo innings. India will lose badly in this test match and i am sure it will come back very strongly in the next match. (J.Yogaraj-Colombo)

I would say it's time that test matches world over are played on pitches where both teams/captains are satisfied and agree that the playing surface on offer is one which allows a good contest.  I feel that Team India became a bit too aggressive/ambitious in wanting to play on a dirt track like surface which is hurting them badly now.  I expect them to be handed a heavy defeat of more than 150 runs margin.  Hopefully, those who asked for such a surface get their senses back and learn how well the England series panned out with better quality surfaces.  The only way for Indians to capture their magic of winning is by playing on surfaces which deteriorate naturally over 5 days rather than wanting to finish a test match in 3 or 4 days.

normally I would be cautious and say it's just one test and there are still three to go... but it's the fact that EVERYTHING but the toss was in India's favour going into this game, and that it looks that Australia will win this test so convincingly and with so much self-confidence, that makes me wonder if we actually have a chance of winning this series

I feel like when Australia bowl each delivery they had a wicket, we have to look at the face of Indian batsman, there is no confidence at all and they  struggle to survive. Rahanae was giving giving catch practise to Australia and Kohli is no better than Smith, Smith has patience and batting superbly, kohlli wicket is very clearly evident that he is a not a good batsman and no captain can lose a wicket cheaply in critical situation like him. Australia should also teach India on how to make use of the reviews, we are the only team who review even after getting out before dead plumber. Australia have handled Jadeja excellently because of their foot work, i feel like our batsman were very standing almost behind the stump and not before the stumps, what a crap. My Kind advise is India plz withdraw yourself from this series otherwise everyone is going to laugh at us. If you want to continue further plz throw out Sharma, Rahanae and Vijay out of the series.

Don/t understand, why they are so eager to take DRS in hurry, even keeper is not supporting while fielding, and batsman don't understand the line. even umpires always support aussies. We have seen this in past as (steve Buckner, devid sheppered, etc...).
Badly Played by Indian team and also a bad luck.

What a problem for curators of next match. Can't prepare spin wicket because India can't play spin. Can't prepare green top wicke because India can't play pace and swing. Can't prepare flat track as ashwin

Still believe IND can win the series..even after losing the first one so bad....Sure the momentum is with AUS...but IND should be able to crawl back.....tough...but definitely achievable.

Aussie supporters cool down. Let Kohli win the toss in the next match, similar fate is awaiting for your team as well. Anyway congratulations to Auss for winning this test match. They deserved it. But really i dont wanna see M. Marsh in the next match. I  would prefer Ager/Max/Khawaja or pitch is seaming than bird.

India got No1 ranking in tests playing at home. But could not win  series in Aus and SA. That no1 ranking is on papers only. It does not say where you win. I think SA and Aus are the best Test side in the World atm. They win while travelling too. SA held that no1 tag for almost a decade by not losing a series in India and winning all the away series. Even in Aus. Now thats the benchmark of a no1 team. If India can win or even draw series in SA and Aus. Then India could be considered in the same league.

Australia score 545 for 20 wickets. I don't think india can even reach half of that. "Thumping" is a small world for this. This is insult at another level with physiological scars forever.

india gone over confident  many of indians players hve given over confident statements just as harbhajan singh has said if australia played well  then its 3 0 otherwise 4 0

4 wickets 6runs to get can indian team beat their first innings secore lets see the only interest left in this test match

It makes you wonder, should have Steve O Keefe not have been playing instead of Lyon for Australia for all those years before? It seems he has a better First Class average too. India's DRS use has been dire in this Test. If the umpire gives you out, it has to be MISSING the wickets to be reversed. Both referrals used up in the first 7 overs is unacceptable. India being good at playing spin bowling is a myth.

The Australian Team has won four Test match series in India in its history, contrary to the Indian Team never winning a Test series in Australia. BTW tea shoulda been extended . Ind all out for 100. We're not Poms are the soft Kiwis we're the mighty Aussies chortle . 4-0 pipe down

Time to warm up that humble pie! Smudge and his merry band of rising stars are doing a demolition job on the most arrogant and over rated #1 test side of all time! Out thought, out played and totally outclassed by a side that was widely written off by all but us true believers! No excuses will be tolerated nor should they be lamely offered. The Pune pitch was engineered to give the home side an advantage but it has most spectularly backfired!! This is more than just a bad day at the office for Kohli and his mob. This will   leave scars for sure on one side and true belief on the other. The only thing that many Indian fans correctly predicted was that this game would be over in 3 days! It sure will be. How humiliating for the self proclaimed unbeatables. Loving every minute of this crushing victory and will patiently wait for the humble and contrite congratulations due.

Well the "greatest" all time number one team loosing to an Aussie team which lost 3-0 to an extremely inexperienced Srilankan side. AT HOME!!!!!!!
Amazing!!!!!!!!!!!

India have world class spinners and world class batsmen in this match but they unable to perform well

Can see all the usual critics not surprisingly putting their heads above the parapet with all their many vitriolic comments! Sadly the joy in their humdrum lives is wholly dependent on India or Indian players doing badly like in this Test!

Pretty disappointing for the King that he didn't have any reviews left, he was obviously pretty concerned about where the ball pitched, unlucky.

Match Ended in 3 days, well played Aus. Indian batsman can't bat on dust bowl and steve smith got 100.

@COOLCAPRICORN, First please admit Aus is better than in batting, bowling and fielding in this match. Do not complain the pitch. Better team will play better than the opposition in any given pitch. Was the pitch prepared by Australians? In this match Aus are much better than Ind. But Ind can improve and come back in the next 3 tests. So hats off to Aus and expecting a good close fight in the next 3 matches.

If someone wants to be a spin hero, India is the place to be ! This is why Herath, Yasir Shah and Ajmal will stand head and shoulders above Ashwin

Australia won a match. Wow! About time too. It is a rarity these days, even in Australia when they are not playing Pakistan. Congratulations! Open the cork.

Indians are done. They can't match us. Australia already miles ahead. This match is over for India, time to think of how to combat the Aussies might for the next one. No stopping us 4-0  Australia

Like how all the people said Australia will get thrashed in the first test let's see how India win the series.Dont run away if Australia win the series I bet you guys will come up with some lame excuse again

Good bye this match, if any shame_left for our batsmen then start learning from Australia skipper and Starc. All TOP order batsmen should feel ashamed the way they played this match in both innings.

This looks like India against England in 2012. We made Monty Panesar a Hero and we are on the way to making O'keefe one. It loos like we have a special agenda to ensure that Australian Captains are given repeated lives in a match to ensure that they score centuries and take their team to victory.....
..an absolutely disgusting batting & fielding from India.

And all the people who were talking about smith getting 5 life's does it matter now you'll get 100 all out

If one game alone takes to judge a team or a bowler, then why we r having ranking system and points... Grow up and give mature comments.. As per gauge meter now o Keefe is no.1 spinner and India is placed 10th rank..

Kohli can't play good quality spin. He struggled vs Monty and Swann. SA had mediocre spinners but on raging turners, Kohli flopped again and now on another turner, he looks clueless. Bashing doubles against hapless spin attacks on feather beds is his speciality.

Irfan Kashmir "4-0 fans don't worry it is still on cards after aus is 1-0 up"
Absolutely.  Whether cricket or holding on to their position in world rankings, the Indians always seem to get it all so right.
Slowly those muddled responses are giving way to muscle and decisive strikes. So all the very best, enjoy one off-color down while it lasts.

Disheartening to watch such obvious lack of technique adapting to what should be their bread and butter conditions. 

Astonishingly the Australians seem to have adapted their bowling lengths and batting techniques better than the Indians.

BRIDGET. - Because it's an inept performance? There's losing with a fight and then there's losing badly. India is doing the latter and that is why we are angry. Fair play to Australia for batting just about enough to be better than us.

what a beauty by okeefe,it strumble indian batting line up. 10 wkts from him. i think its big win for aussies.

Smith might have been lucky that India's fielders carnt catch,. but I think India need a third Inning to get to 440.

so now we have worked out Australia has superior spinners, maybe a green top next test to give India a chance??

Have to admit that Aussies are playing brilliantly..!
They have prepared well for this & up for the challenge. 
About team India, dont worry guys, this type of situation was on the cards always. You cant win every match.
And about the haters, i think they are supposedly our neighbors only..guys keep doing the same as your team are winning each n every match..at home or outside (in your minds only)
Team India still the best...

Great day for the haters of India and Indian team! This is a match!  Australia prepared very well  than other teams visited  to India.  They are going to win the series!  India now has to satisfy for second position! They are looking strong in every field .They deserve number one!

@deccan_express : totally agree vijay should be play one match but KL rahul and rahane should say bye bye to test carrier...

JJJAKE  "Once Australia has won this series" ?? sorry but they will lose this series like they just got beaten against South Africa, New Zealand, and sRI Lanka.

Anil Kumble, please get your camera in hand to capture some classic poignant moments. It's really worth it.

I said before India ranking gone up because of home ground and weaker teams. Now see when they have a strong opponent even on home ground they cannot match. So ICC show be more flexible on awarding ranks. Even Kholi batting is down. Let's see Kholi overseas and then we can rank him.

India was on a good winning streak and got careless. Shami got injoured and they brought ISHANT back in. Not only is Ishant a passenger who occasionally picks up a wicket or two but I also believe that he is a bad omen for the team. Unless India gets rid of Ishant they will always be an up and down side!

Ndia tried emulate Bangladesh who did similar thung to England. But what they failed to replicate is their batting. Also, India couldn't beat Bangladesh for 5 days. So what chance they have to beat Australia.

Last time MSD played a series defining knock in first test to wrest initiative as well as dominate further. India require such an innings from someone for any hope of series win.

India has scored 1/4 th of the target. It will be really easy for them to score the rest. Good batting india. We are almost there.

Rahane goes. I reckon another 10 overs should be enough to finish them off then the Aussies can sit around the pool and drink something colorful with an umbrella in the glass

Once Australia has won this series . Australia will be up to 5 series wins in India to India's 7 series wins at home against Australia.
India has never won a series in Australia.
Somebody tell me I'm wrong.

Sorry if I put a stop to any momentary glee but normal service has resumed. SOK another 6for and the Aussies winning by 320 runs. Geez ya lot struggling on your dust bowls? Aussies will win the series - no stopping us from here. Go the Aussies

Here is always-trolled always bashed Nathan Lyon and hardly-known Keefe bowling so good and much better than ashwini. Now how is ashwin claimed to be the no 1 bowler on planet. Imagine Saqlain Mushtaq, murli, panesar, swann on this track.

India is number 1 # cricket team in the world. One or two bad days may come. It doesn't matter. Indian cricket team is still no-1

Yes its just 1 match but Indian batting looks pathetic on their own pitch in their backyard.  Isnt this India's strength. Home Test. What would happen if India lose again like this? I dont Back India Winning Test series in SA and Aus.

Great to see Aussies bowling stocks looking so good with Zampa and Behrendorff taking 6-for and 9-for respectively in their current shield games

As an Indian fan, have to admit that having such a spinning track that was spinning sharply from Day 1 of the Test has backfired on India spectacularly! Seems we are on course to get a thumping & humiliating defeat that will please our critics! Don't think we even saw such tracks in the recent home series India played against New Zealand or England - which was both won comfortably. Don't know if this pitch was intentionally under prepared to suit the home spinners or it was just bone dry due to a lack of rain!

I thought india might be to much for aussies in this test. India have been brilliant at home but i guess Australias preperation was just to good. They hit the ground running and are running in with confidence! Makes all the difference. Go aussies! From a saffa

And the Indian fans were berating the Pakistan team for losing against Australia in Australia ? There is simply no comparison. I only wonder what Yasir Shah would do on a pitch like this. Ashwin is nothing but an ordinary bowler, he has been clearly revealed he can bowl only on turners. Shame really.

kohli is better then smith....everyone fails occasionally.  1 loss....haters please remember we whooped ur teams.  anyone has to admit aus are a in a class of their own, but the rest of u india thrashed

Well played Team Australia. As an Indian fan its very nice to see how Team Australia have done their homework. They have exposed the fact that our team struggle against spin and are using the same at their benefit. We do not have spin batting talents in our Indian squad like a decade ago. Its the first game and i am sure that team India will bounce back. Its a good game to loose as we cannot win all games. This bad loss will keep our unit mentally stronger to bounce back. Overall team Australia deserves a massive appreciation.

Wow, I can't believe how many fair weather Indian supporters are trashing their national team - pretty sad really.
Number one ranked team in the world on an incredible winning streak and you guys are so quick to ask for heads to be on the chopping block!

Good to see a game between australia and bangla  (or india??)..and they should not have test status!!! India is playing like nepal...

ha ha one match, and people are telling RIP, India. Anyway, its curtains down for India in this test. well played Australia, in all departments. A good pat on Indians by Australia to wake up and say No. 1 team should play much better

everybody crying over 1 match....lets watch the series 1st pls.  just a hiccup for india and unfortunately kohli wasnt given 9 lives like smith was.  scoreboard pressure and a lot of luck (well sorry have to admit pathetic fielding fron India) went aussies way.

How is it that Kohli and Co didn't learn from how Smith batted?
One of the best hundreds of all time, and an Indian top six that are failing to adapt to their own conditions......

even saha is not that good batsman,  when you are playing with 5 bowlers you need to have specialist wicket keeping batsman,  saha is a decent keeper not a good batsman,  when you have very good wicket keeping batsman why you want to go with oldie saha rather than risubh pant or ishan kishan

common india fight hard. just because the pitch that you have choosen has backfired on you, it doesnt mean you should give up !!!!

SoK you legend, unplayable against the "best" players of spim in the world, who would have thunk it??

Kholi is walking wicket as per usual!!! Ind 3-48. Time to eat humble pie LOL !!! Aussie Aussie Aussie Oi Oi Oi

What a gun kholi is... He clearly is number 1 and will win the game, oh wait he chose the wrong ball to leave...

murali vijay is a nothing batsman,  take shreyas iyer as a opening batsman,  this guy murali vijay plays for himself , you need to remove dhonis team players

So the last recognized pair out there in the middle....at least IND should aim to play out 50 ours as their immediate target.

Ahem were are the people who predicted a 270 from kholi and a indian win with  7 wickets in hand at this stage wonder if india can make 270 both innings combined lol

O smithy what are you thinking. It is kohli's wicket. You have 2 reviews left, so many runs on board, nothing to lose sutuation , why you didn't review it. Just let kohli to score a few and get confidence and it will  come back to sting u. Also didn't help your batting average race as well.

Southiesaar, "another lbw given out, another umpires call" Yeah they were given out, because they were OUT. Anyway these umpires are better than that shamshuddin guy you guys use. That guy gave lots of howlers. Truly a rubbish umpire

If Ashwin is not 100% because of sports hernia rhen he should be dropped rather than playing him for his reputation and hope opposition would give him wickets. Some fresh legs in this long home season would do no harm.

@CRICFAN68297235 
this is just one bad match and india fan has every reason to keep their head high as india is no.1.if u have issue with that then pls file complaint with ICC

@SOUTHIESAAR kohli was plum lbw but not given out. stop complaining ur team is most over rated in current test teams.

Aus should play fair play. Ind dropped a dozen catches, So Aus should drop 6 catches mainly off King.

If the ball is hitting the wickets, its hitting the wickets. Those 'umpires calls' are out because the ball is STILL hitting the wickets. If you dont want your batsman to get out LBW, then ensure they use their bat instead of their pad to hit the ball. India's use of DRS has been one of the poorest I have ever seen.

@BhushanB I already told many times that Lyon would be impossible to play even for likes of Tendulkar or Lara. He gets drifts and turn even on flat wickets on Australia. He spins the much quicker. That's why he is the mist dangerous bowler visiting India in last 30 years. Kohli and other batsman are no match for him.

Guess BCCI will go back to its old stand of DRS not being fool proof and say we wont use reviews anymore as we dont know how to use it

Absolute Pathetic batting skills from Rahul & especially Vijay. Even the Tailenders have better technique on a turning surface than these two. Awful footwork, no lesson learnt from the way Aussie batsman applied & played their shots & more over wasting reviews after playing poor shots & any1 watching their batting in the first overs could say with 100% surety that they weren't going to survive on this pitch for even few overs bcoz they lacked skills. Time for India to replace these two with Iyer & another with Mukunnd or any other player who has better batting technique against the spin & has done well recently in Ranji on turning tracks.

I am here I say it again Smith is no where near to Kohli ,, how many matches he won for Australia single handedly wt's his batting average in t20 and odis ???

5 overs two wickets two reviews...bitter pill to swallow... tough times to be an IND cricket fan....Well this is when you 

Kohli getting reprieve from umpire kettleborough, and brain explosion from smudge, it is kohli, u HV nothing to lose, two reviews left, absolute brain explision

Normal service has resumed. If I were an Indian fan I wouldn't bother going to the next games. Oh wait, you don't anyway. India doesn't have real fans.

When I said Rahane wouldn't survive more than 10 balls against Lyon everyone mocked me saying how scored runs all over the globe. All over globe on flat wickets really!! Now that Aus 0-1 up it seems I know something about cricket too.

All the top 5 batters average over 50(kohli avg 95) and many of our posters say aussies play on roads ... Ah the IRONY!

Smith had some chances but you need them on this poor pitch.  Also fielding is part of the game. In his last 5 tests against India, Smith has scored a century in every game they report. Pretty amazing batting.

From here it is downhill for India. They are now entering a slump phase. their winning phase /peak is over. when they tour it will only get worse. when they come to SA  they will crushed. please publish cricinfo

Mmmm, i hope Wade doesnt cost us the game. Already his mediocre glovework is being exposed, racking up bye's and missing inside edges

Such awful technique from the Indians, even a club level plater has a better technique than these guys. No using of the foot & not much concentration shown either when going backfoot & not  getting the hands away when the ball takes off. That 2nd over of Lyon where Rahul couldn't get out when the ball took & went with the ball to glove it which fell just short off Handscomb convinced me he is not gonna last long witht that technique. Same goes to Vijay who was struck in the crease & playing for the spin & not learning from way the Aussie's batted. Don't know how these players are playing at this level, not an iota of application shown or learnt from the touring batsman who come & shown better technique & application than the home side, disgraceful & unfit. Here we go again, the mental block has started again i guess & this may be repeat of 2012 England series unless VK gets the whole team to get over this defeat mentally & gets them up & running with a spirited comebk frm nxt Test.

Such selfish use of DRS. Self before team - Absolutely disgusting!! And when bowling, so many times I keep repeating, the obvious dismissal will come so just wait for it - Don't go on a hunch and use up the precious reviews!!!!

India were overconfident coming into this match underestimating Australia .Now they are paying for it. Making a rank turner backfired for India

Don't know whats more pathetic, the india cricket team....or their fans who have there heads so far up their....

All umpires calls going australias way. This is beyond ridicullous. And when Australia batted couple of LBWs given not out. Again on umpires call. 

..........and as soon as you lose the reviews, the umpires become your enemy..........not necessarily though, you lost the reviews only because you took some wrong decisions.....remember ??

PRADEEPMS88: Congratulations to Steve Smith for a great hundred, after been given 957 lives from a very poor and outclassed indian team.  India - All out 110 2nd Inns

"World's best players of spin" are playing "the best" against "third rate spinners" of Australia on home pitch -> both openers back in the hut in less than 4 overs of playing spin!!!! These players don't deserve slightest respect as they failed to show courage and technique to survive - played across the line and got beaten. AT LEAST NOW, LET"S NOT CALL THEM the BEST PLAYERS OF SPIN. THEY ARE NOT!!! Vijay's technique was exposed against seamer outside the off stump in the first innings (dangling bat away from body outside the offstump) and it the second innings he was totally at sea against spinner. As for Rahul, less said the better - NOT a test opener by any means. Signs of bad form were there all season but management chose to ignore. Will they act at least now and give a chance to someone plucky like Parthiv Patel?

Australia have let their opposition score big totals in the last innings. As little as two months ago they let Pakistan score 450 runs in the last innings in Brisbane. The highest successful chase in a fourth innings was against Australia by minnows West Indies.
If anyone can do it, we can do it. If it will be done against any team, it will be done against Australia.
Kohli to get 250.

Lyon spinning big on one end... and IND batsmen playing for spin that is not there from O'Keefe at the other end. which is the bigger of the two evils?

Absolutely shocking use of DRS by the Indian batsman and in their fielding innings. DRS is not there to give you a second chance, its there to reverse a BAD decision by the umpire. Rahul's decision to review was irresponsible.

Time and time again India has shown itself surrender against spin bowling. Whether it be against Panesar or against Sodhi in T20. Doesn't change the fact that we're the best players of spin and have dominated it for the good part of the last 5 decades.

a rare bad performance from India considering their current form. well played Australia. no excuses of losing the toss, or conditions.

aussies are calling for danger. Now kohli is in the pitch. He will rip apart aussies. Game over for australia.

Well, now we know why India were so anti DRS-  they do not have the faintest idea how to apply it !

finally, Smith has proved that he is a good batsman. India is a slow sinking ship in this test. if they win this test , (though the chances are bleak) they are in the leagues of Clive Lloyd and Steve Waugh's world beaters.

Kohli is saidly loss of the match award .In captaincy why you questioning over umpire decision.both umpire seem upset of this behaviour of kohli.And out come is which boll is out side of stump even hit it middle of stump in australia inning,same situation in india inning and both opener gone.How many time batsmsn not giving out,and now you paid the price heavily.Learn the thing umpiring is high class in this match until kohli asking again and again.

What on earth were Vijay and Rahul reviewing for? Caught plumb in front of the stumps, both. India have been terrible with reviews in general. They review in hope rather than certainty.

I don't understand who is supposed to be weak against spin? All I see is batsman after batsman (from Ind) hang back and reacting poorly to the pitch rather than judge the length and play accordingly. Same goes for how to bowlers were content to beat the edges rather than go for LBW which seems to be an existential threat to Ind bats EVERY ball! I am very keen to hear what Kohli says in post match pres today (oh yes, this is not going beyond 40-50 overs). I don't want to hear excuses like Dhoni for his awful performance

Pathetic catching, disappointing fielding, poor DRS reviews. Everything made India facing a biggest test defeat

Getting to the pitch of the ball is the only weapon against the spinner.. possibly sweep is another.. but there is a chance of popping into the air... Well if you trust your footwork, just get to the pitch of the ball.

That has to be the most pathetic reviewing seen in a while! Both Vijay and Rahul looked out at first glance unless they were confident of inside edges. If not it was simply wasted reviews and now IND have none left inside the first 10 overs!

5 overs two wickets two reviews...bitter pill to swallow... tough times to be an IND cricket fan....Well this is when you come out of the hiding and show your support for the team and sport you love.

Okay. Looks like its 1-0 to Aussies TODAY. Well played Aussies, U deserve to win this one. Bring on the 2nd Test. A new day and new beginning for India there.

Horrible umpiring continued....  Smith was not given out on 73 LBW when he was out.....  Then Wade was caught not given.....  Then the Vijay decisions....  Horrible

Seriously 270 and centuries by ashwin are they going to play in another pitch or the aussies told to bowl under arm balls so they can keep hitting sixes when would people get real this game wont last long at best till lunch tomorrow max india would make 150-200 period

Even if India scores on 4th innings around 250 it would be a great acheivement considering the pitch condition

forget one session at a time.......Its one over at a time... Lyon causing a lot of problems...or the openers letting him dominate? There is a lot of spin, but it is predictable...Time to play positive cricket... not over aggressive..

Now Australia are on the brink of getting 1 up, its time to pile up batsman in your xi from match 2 to take the series as well

CRICFAN54726827: Why? Logic dictates that you deserve to win if you chase down the total. I'm not saying India will do it, but chasing it down means India raised their performances to match winning levels. Learn how sports works.

Kohli over carried,over positive and over expressing,balance has had missing in captaincy.You show your trump card second over in the match.You just totaly opposite,what you have did in last series.If you have two fast boler who bowled 140s ,they deserve to get first spell at first day.Yadav show beauty in last match as a bowler.And you dont give boll in first hour at first day in match.Rahane is good batsmsn better batsman than nayar,but nayar is way better player of spin so why you not choose it specially after triple hundrad.And how many over give to ishant,if you think ishant is not fit in your plan so choose bhuvenswar or any batter like nayar.

well played Smith! tough pitch and very good bowling, though 4 chances, cant take credit out of Smiths batting skills. If Indians ay really well, draw will be a good achievement. Win i doubt. Its draw or Aus win. no third possibility. Scoreboard pressure, first innings 7-11 ghost, Okeef's unexpected spin web all will count. If Indians have to draw their mental application should be 200 times of what they showed in first innings. All the best to both the teams

The best and possible threat to this chase is the "fresh starc". If Indians can play out his initial burts then game on

I wanted Hazelwood to open with starch, his immaculate length is trouble for openers around the world

Will the Indian batting ship sink in the second innings again, hope not. Hard to believe Indian batsmen are so fragile against spin. Certainly these Australian spin duo look more ominous than Ali and Rashid. If IND could provide this type of pitch (rather than a flat Hyderabad pitch) to BD we would enjoy a more competetive match. Still IND would remain favourite but it would be more entertaining. Good luck to both teams.

Well lets look at the long and short of it. We got 20 wickets despite Ishant being superfluous and us looking a batsman short. Even with no pressure in the second innings it was a good bowling performance. We need to improve the fielding...dropping 4 catches and gifting the opposition captain a hundred is appalling and we have not improved over 2 years now. All in all I hope the turners continue even if it means risking the series. We have to go out and win the games to get the trophy back home now. Playing on flat tracks again has improved nothing and brought on complacency. This pitch is only slightly more difficult than the Mumbai pitch against England where we made 600 and we have crumbled under scoreboard pressure. Now I hope they dont make a mockery of things and play a proper second innings.

So Australia go 1 up in the series that most expected India to win in a cakewalk. The interesting question now is: What changes will the respective teams make for test 2?
For India, I reckon Ishant has to go and they should bring in a younger quick.
For Australia, they need to replace the Shaun Passenger with Khawaja and if MM does nuthin this innings wiv de ball mon, den he can go owt also and Maxwell can come in

India will be all out before 150, wicket is not up to international standards, ICC should take notice of wicket condition in India.

for all those who predicted a 4-0 result in this series... TAKE HEART!!! No matter who wins 4-0 is still achievable.

I think india is going to win this match by huge margin. Kohli and ashwin will score 100s. May be india will win this match by 8 wickets. Go india. No matter what, you are the best.

Guys be ready to watch world's biggest chase ever. India will win this match with 3 wickets in hand.  mark my words

India doesn't deserve a win in this match.they dropped many catches,pathetic batting display,dismal performance overall

Appreciate Team Australia played well in both the innings.  Catches will win matches.   It was unfortunate that the indian players  couldn't grab many sitters.  Today at the first hour of play,  Smith was LBW Jadeja when he was 84.  Umpire ruled out the decision citing the reason as the ball hit the bat first before hitting the pad.  Indian team review was nil.   The action reply clearly showed the ball hit the pad first.  It was plumb in front.  Similarly,  Wade was caught behind in the bowling of Umesh.  Honestly, the batsman himself should have walked off. But, he stayed back and umpire ruled him not out.    Since we did not have review,  wade escaped.  Umpiring decisions are pathetic.   If there is a doubt (or) based on the appeals made by the fielding team, the umpire may go for third umpire review.  He did not do that despite Kohli requested him to do so.   Indian batsmen will definitely fight back hard.  I wish India to win this match.  Ramesh Nagarajan Chennai

Well, there we go. 441 is the target. On this deck that should be too many. Theoretically it's too many on any pitch to be fair.

India may still win the match if only the batsmen apply themselves; there is no dearth of time, and partnerships and confidence in their defense can really work up a miracle for India.

1-0 to Australia then. Nice to see the arrogant Indians under pressure. Kohli was too complacent, imagine when he tours SA! I fear the 2nd test pitch will be the worst in history with India looking to level the series.

post Virendra sehwag's retirement no can can dream that any thing could be possible.rahul should stop trying to imitate viru.viru is a natural attacking classical batsam.

Still 2 more days of the test remaining. There is no way India is even drawing this game. Great aggression and execution from Australia.

I would be surprised if Ind crosses 200 in the last innings.  Hope they play better in the next three matches.

First innings lead of 150 is gonna make difference at the end of the matc...india's top order have to really bat well if they are going to save this match. Best of luck team india!!!

Great effort by the Aussies. I don't think we will win the series but this is in the bag. Unless "King Kholi" knocks up 250 of course.

Smith should buy a lottery ticket today. So lucky to get 100. Such an annoying batsman for the opposition but mighty effective. I think now India's so called bowling great Harbhajan will not make this kind of prediction. Austrailia deserves to win this game. The way these crop of Indian batsman plays spin on turning wicket Game should end by today. Hopefully this is on off test where India underperformed.

as an Indian fan I would like to see Indian victory, but can't stop appreciating the Aussies ,they really outplayed India till now ,but this is cricket, can't predict until the result come ,still 2 days and 2 sessions to go I feel India still have a chance if they bat with rock determined , they are known for that

I think we can safely assume that Australia will wrap this match up by the end of day 4! This Aussie team no matter how the series pads out, have turned things around big time since their lamentable showing in 2015-16. All the dead wood has gone , talent in Renshaw,Handscomb, O Keeffe and Khawaja, support for Smith as leader and a world class pace attack . If India pull off a miracle I'll eat my cricket hat . So according to the maths , India slaughtered England, Australia are about to hammer India ... which means cometh the ashes , England could get a whipping like last time down under. But cricket is a funny fascinating old game isn't it ?

Wow 441 Runs lead who would have thought about Australia in such position.Credit to them for preparing well,. hiring right people and fighting hard in their 1st innings. They have good fast bowlers and gun fielding unit. And india for some strange reason give them Raging turner, their spinners have come into ascendency.1-0 Australia by tomorrow morning. As an indian fan a bitter pill to swallow but lot to learn from Aussies.Respect from Indian fan.

Australia got real lucky in this Match Right from the toss..
India must look to come back from Next test..

Well played Steve Smith! A fantastic hundred on a pitch that turned and bounced. I have no problem in holding my hand up and saying Australia have been the better side this match. However, stranger things have happened in Test cricket so don't count India out yet.

will be very interested to see what type of wickets india prepare after loosing this match. i think rank turners just to avoid loosing the series

will be very interested to see what type of wickets india prepare after loosing this match. i think rank turners just to avoid loosing the series

Well played Steve Smith! A fantastic hundred on a pitch that turned and bounced. I have no problem in holding my hand up and saying Australia have been the better side this match. However, stranger things have happened in Test cricket so don't count India out yet.

Australia got real lucky in this Match Right from the toss..
India must look to come back from Next test..

Wow 441 Runs lead who would have thought about Australia in such position.Credit to them for preparing well,. hiring right people and fighting hard in their 1st innings. They have good fast bowlers and gun fielding unit. And india for some strange reason give them Raging turner, their spinners have come into ascendency.1-0 Australia by tomorrow morning. As an indian fan a bitter pill to swallow but lot to learn from Aussies.Respect from Indian fan.

        We use cookies to help make this website better, to improve our services and for advertising purposes. You can learn more about our use of cookies and change your browser settings in order to avoid cookies by clicking 
Lowest match total for two all-out innings in India. Quickest end to two all-out innings in India. India's fourth-lowest match total. The third-quickest they have taken to be bowled out. If India asked for , though, insisted that he had not asked for this pitch, saw nothing wrong with the pitch, and pulled himself and his fellow batsmen up for capitulating for a total of 212 runs in 74 overs. 

Asked if he or his team had asked for this pitch at a ground with a reputation for flat hard surfaces, Kohli said: "I don't know. I didn't speak to anyone."

About the pitch itself Kohli said: "I don't think it was any different from the turners that we played on in the past. We just didn't play good cricket. You can ask me any sort of question or any perception about the loss. We know exactly what happened, the mistakes that we made. External perceptions don't matter to us, they have never mattered to us. 

"We played good cricket, that's why we won. We played bad cricket, and that's why we lost. That's how simply we look at this defeat. We just want to take the learnings forward, improve and come back stronger in the next game. I can assure you that we are going to come back with more intent for sure, and put Australia under pressure straight from ball one."

Once the pitch was laid out, India had the option of strengthening the batting like they did on a similar pitch in Nagpur . Kohli defended the selection. "We wanted to pick up 20 wickets, we did manage to do that," Kohli said. "I mean, not in time. I would say we did make breakthroughs but we could've done it quicker and if you don't grab your chances in the second innings, if you drop five chances of one batsman, then you certainly don't deserve to win. If you get bowled out within 11 runs and lose seven wickets, you don't deserve to win a Test match. 

"You can speak about combinations... I'm sure you wouldn't have asked this question had we won the game. The question changes drastically when you win or lose. A lot of things are result-oriented, but not with our team. We focus on what we can do right, and what we need to do right on field, and we don't drift away from that. Our mindset doesn't change with the results."

Kohli said Indian saw the defeat as "no big deal". "It's fine," Kohli said of the mood in the dressing room. "It's just another international game. It's no big deal. It's how you should stay calm and composed when you win, how you shouldn't get overexcited. The same way you react when you lose, something that you take on the chin. We take failures and losses as an opportunity to learn."

The defeat ended India's 19-Test unbeaten streak, and Kohli looked back to their previous defeat for inspiration. "The last time we had a performance like this [, against Sri Lanka], we had the most outstanding run after that," Kohli said. "I would say that we needed something like this for us to get a reality check and understand what are the things we need to work on and keep persisting with it. Not take anything for granted at any stage, especially at the Test-match level."

Kohli blamed his batsmen for not applying themselves, but defended his bowlers, who were outdone by Australia who had little experience of bowling in such conditions. "The way we batted in the first innings, I think we put ourselves under a lot of pressure to be honest," Kohli said. "Conceding a 160-run lead on that kind of wicket is criminal actually. If we were close enough to their first-innings total, the bowlers' mindset is different in the second innings. The moment you give away 50-60 runs, the game is drifting away already. 

"It's very difficult to pull things back from there, even a single run hurts from thereon. And I would say our batsmen put us in that position where it was very difficult for us to come back into the game. Am not blaming the bowlers at all, they tried their level best, someone like Umesh [Yadav] bowling well in the first innings was great to see on a slowish wicket. They bowled in good areas, they put Australia under pressure, they were going well in the first innings and we pulled things back nicely. A few things we can take away from this game but [only] from bowling aspect. Our batting wasn't up to standard, and that's certainly how we shouldn't bat from here onwards.'

When asked what the Australia spinners did right in comparison to India's, Kohli found no flaw with his unit. "I think our spinners bowled really well as well," he said. "I wouldn't say what they did better. As I said, if you don't apply yourself, any bowling attack can look dangerous. It's as simple as that. Even a part-timer can get four wickets if you don't apply yourself. And I certainly would like to think that that was the case with our batting line-up in this game. It rarely happens that four-five batsmen make errors in judgement in both the innings, especially with the way we batted in the last few months. I would say this was our worst batting performance and we need to accept that."

One of the errors was Kohli's, when he shouldered arms to become one of Steve O'Keefe's 12 wickets in the match. This image was the most symbolic of all. Ravindra Jadeja had done this  in Mohali in 2015-16. Now Kohli watched in horror as his off stump was laid flat. Kohli was forthcoming about his mistake. 

"It was a judgement error from my side," he said. "I left the ball too early. I should have waited for the ball a little more. You can't say which ball is going to turn or which isn't. You've got to play the line, and I certainly didn't do that. It was my fault."

Drop Rahane, Ishant, Jayant and groom another opener for future as Vijay is getting into bad habits of inconsistency which does not help the team at all. KL Rahul is young so can be corrected in terms of controlling his aggression. Pujara, Kohli and Rohit when comes back form the core so no space there..But Shreyas Iyer and Rishabh Pant need a look in sooner than later before they lose form as happened to Unmukt Chand.For 2nd test I'd go for Kuldeep, Nair as immediate changes and Kohli should seriously think of going with 6 batsmen as Saha doesn't look the part with bat when facing top quality teams. The level of overconfidence by selectors,management is evident by the fact that they only picked 7 proper batsmen may be because its at home.Time for drastic change because this team depends on Kohli heavily,he's human after all so law of averages was bound to catch up any time. If he fails we cannot have a Pune like scenario so need in-form & hungry players in team. Rahane MUST GO!

I actually feel that 150 was par score on this track and that Indian spin bowling did not adapt to the conditions as pointed by other commenters.  They should have bowled like part-timers (Yuvraj, Raina) who cant turn the ball a lot and the pitch would have done the rest.  It is not like O'Keefe was creating all the variations -- he was bowling to a good line without tweaking the ball and the pitch did the rest.   Of course drops against Smith were not helping.

The Indian team wasn't well balanced - they were a batsman short. Ashwin should be at 7 not 6. India underestimated our bowling attack & thought their batting was strong enough. Ishant orJayant were taking the position of a batsman. Jayant should go for the bloke that got the 300.
M.Marsh is a similar issue for us but rather than batting 7 he should be at 12! From here we should be playing a full top 6 - so bring in Usman.
As for O'Keefe, it's about time he got his due. He may look innocuous but his 1st class stats are brilliant. A spinner with a bowling average of less than 23 who has played over 50 matches! He isn't a big turner but that's fine. He's a skidding style spinner with subtle changes of line and pace off the pitch. He totally deceived Kohli through the air with a straight ball that had little to do with the pitch conditions. If he isn't respected he will continue to reek havoc.
Personally, I hate facing bowlers like SO'K. They trick you into thinking they're easy but ...!

@CRICFAN03284342 It is okay to loose match once in a while.. kohli meant that team should not be too happy while winning becoz winning is also not a big deal.. that is also just a international match.. same is the case while loosing.. Life or for that matter cricket or any other game lows are bound to come.. u can not control it.. but bounce back from that situation is in ur control.. any team should focus on that..

Surely, WI would not have been bowled out for those scores. Yet, many would have called for their test status to be removed if they were in India's position. This was a bad game for India. I am sure Kohli and his men will bounce back. I'd like Indians and others to stop blasting sides like WI when they struggle, but fail to do the same when sides like India struggle.

Hear, Hear cricfan03284342. No doubt you can learn from losses just like wins, but if you are blase about losing it can quickly snowball! Especially with this 'process coaching' that needs to be consigned to history. Too many batsmen have been told to trust their process and play their own game and the result is players like Rahul, Maxwell and any amount of West Indians slogging 2 balls into an innings regardless of the wicket or the game situation. It's time players are taught they have a responsibility to the result. If you play like that and we lose, you're gone 'til you can play for the team and your partner down the other end!
The Aussie summer was the wake up call they needed and inclusions of Renshaw & Handscomb who build innings are a step in that direction. Maxwells selection in India is backward, but team players are ecstatic at winning, because their contribution no matter how small is noticed in a team win. By the way Virat, winning confidence make a team field better too.

Well India has no one but themselves to blame. They totally underestimated Australia and the overconfidence did not help them one bit. From the pitch to the way they went about things backfired on them. Well played Australia. Hope you win the series.

A start might be to be gracious in defeat and give credit to the opponent. Smith and SOK were humble in victory. Much for Kohli and the Indian team to learn. Murali Vijay had said before the start of the series that it will be 4 nil and this was also very clearly stated by Harbhajan and Ganguly. Vijay didn't contribute with the bat and dropped atleast 2 catches which hurt India badly. Ganguly had the hide to say that even the top aussie teams couldn't win in India. Might he need reminding they did in 2004 when he pulled out at the last minute in Nagpur when the pitch was green and he was scared of facing the aussie attack and losing the series which they did without him. Never under estimate your opponent and get your facts right.

Is Kohli at risk of losing a match or two for showing dissent (on at least two occasions) towards decisions made by umpires??? 
I'm sure Niroshan Dickwella would like to know.
Or is he immune to such laws???

We all know Captains have to find something bland to say at press conferences, but you'd hope Kohli was deflecting when he said the loss was fine, just another International game. You certainly do learn from both wins and losses, but losing isn't fine because it can quickly snowball if you're blase about it.

Drop Rahane, Ishant, Jayant and groom another opener for future as Vijay is getting into bad habits of inconsistency which does not help the team at all. KL Rahul is young so can be corrected in terms of controlling his aggression. Pujara, Kohli and Rohit when comes back form the core so no space there..But Shreyas Iyer and Rishabh Pant need a look in sooner than later before they lose form as happened to Unmukt Chand.For 2nd test I'd go for Kuldeep, Nair as immediate changes and Kohli should seriously think of going with 6 batsmen as Saha doesn't look the part with bat when facing top quality teams. The level of overconfidence by selectors,management is evident by the fact that they only picked 7 proper batsmen may be because its at home.Time for drastic change because this team depends on Kohli heavily,he's human after all so law of averages was bound to catch up any time. If he fails we cannot have a Pune like scenario so need in-form & hungry players in team. Rahane MUST GO!

I actually feel that 150 was par score on this track and that Indian spin bowling did not adapt to the conditions as pointed by other commenters.  They should have bowled like part-timers (Yuvraj, Raina) who cant turn the ball a lot and the pitch would have done the rest.  It is not like O'Keefe was creating all the variations -- he was bowling to a good line without tweaking the ball and the pitch did the rest.   Of course drops against Smith were not helping.

The Indian team wasn't well balanced - they were a batsman short. Ashwin should be at 7 not 6. India underestimated our bowling attack & thought their batting was strong enough. Ishant orJayant were taking the position of a batsman. Jayant should go for the bloke that got the 300.
M.Marsh is a similar issue for us but rather than batting 7 he should be at 12! From here we should be playing a full top 6 - so bring in Usman.
As for O'Keefe, it's about time he got his due. He may look innocuous but his 1st class stats are brilliant. A spinner with a bowling average of less than 23 who has played over 50 matches! He isn't a big turner but that's fine. He's a skidding style spinner with subtle changes of line and pace off the pitch. He totally deceived Kohli through the air with a straight ball that had little to do with the pitch conditions. If he isn't respected he will continue to reek havoc.
Personally, I hate facing bowlers like SO'K. They trick you into thinking they're easy but ...!

@CRICFAN03284342 It is okay to loose match once in a while.. kohli meant that team should not be too happy while winning becoz winning is also not a big deal.. that is also just a international match.. same is the case while loosing.. Life or for that matter cricket or any other game lows are bound to come.. u can not control it.. but bounce back from that situation is in ur control.. any team should focus on that..

Surely, WI would not have been bowled out for those scores. Yet, many would have called for their test status to be removed if they were in India's position. This was a bad game for India. I am sure Kohli and his men will bounce back. I'd like Indians and others to stop blasting sides like WI when they struggle, but fail to do the same when sides like India struggle.

Hear, Hear cricfan03284342. No doubt you can learn from losses just like wins, but if you are blase about losing it can quickly snowball! Especially with this 'process coaching' that needs to be consigned to history. Too many batsmen have been told to trust their process and play their own game and the result is players like Rahul, Maxwell and any amount of West Indians slogging 2 balls into an innings regardless of the wicket or the game situation. It's time players are taught they have a responsibility to the result. If you play like that and we lose, you're gone 'til you can play for the team and your partner down the other end!
The Aussie summer was the wake up call they needed and inclusions of Renshaw & Handscomb who build innings are a step in that direction. Maxwells selection in India is backward, but team players are ecstatic at winning, because their contribution no matter how small is noticed in a team win. By the way Virat, winning confidence make a team field better too.

Well India has no one but themselves to blame. They totally underestimated Australia and the overconfidence did not help them one bit. From the pitch to the way they went about things backfired on them. Well played Australia. Hope you win the series.

A start might be to be gracious in defeat and give credit to the opponent. Smith and SOK were humble in victory. Much for Kohli and the Indian team to learn. Murali Vijay had said before the start of the series that it will be 4 nil and this was also very clearly stated by Harbhajan and Ganguly. Vijay didn't contribute with the bat and dropped atleast 2 catches which hurt India badly. Ganguly had the hide to say that even the top aussie teams couldn't win in India. Might he need reminding they did in 2004 when he pulled out at the last minute in Nagpur when the pitch was green and he was scared of facing the aussie attack and losing the series which they did without him. Never under estimate your opponent and get your facts right.

Is Kohli at risk of losing a match or two for showing dissent (on at least two occasions) towards decisions made by umpires??? 
I'm sure Niroshan Dickwella would like to know.
Or is he immune to such laws???

We all know Captains have to find something bland to say at press conferences, but you'd hope Kohli was deflecting when he said the loss was fine, just another International game. You certainly do learn from both wins and losses, but losing isn't fine because it can quickly snowball if you're blase about it.

Right ! It was the batting and not pitch. India can only bat on a dead pitch. Make dead pitches and bring on dead pitch batters like Dhwan.And score heavy to bore the Australians out.

Wow, incredible arrogance and total lack of humility. 
Part of the fabric of sport is acknowledging your opponent in defeat. Showing your opposition respect for a game well played. His comments say a great deal about his mindset as a person, and a leader. It is ok to be like that when you win - but when regular losses and setbacks occur, as they will do in the  nature of sport, this type of inherent behavior will become very tiresome very quickly.

So Spin Pitch didn't work!! what's next? Fast Bouncy one!! imagine Starc and Hazlewood on fire, ambulance and fire service on stand by!! ICC should review the Test status if a Test match cannot last beyond 3 days.

"I can assure you that we are going to come back with more intent for sure, and put Australia under pressure straight from ball one". No mate, Warner will send it smoking to the boundary. This will be an easy whitewash for Australia.

Indian trapped in their own web....is they are brave enough to have another dust turner....time will tell

The whole match seems terribly suspicious. Long odds for an Aus victory, with India probably able to afford an early loss. Smith dropped four times. And that stumping - was that a real effort to get that foot back behind the crease? Leaving a straight one from a bowler whose turn has been minimal all game? I remember a game in Sydney when Nathan Hauritz suddenly became a match-winner...

"It's just another international game. It's no big deal" .... trying hard not to show emotions but in real this defeat has hurt india and kohli real hard. but overall good to see him not blaming the loss to pitch etc but accepting the mistakes, pointing out the areas of concern and while doing so not surrendering but playing it cool.

on the match... i wont say arrogant but india were far too complacent in this match or perhaps in the first two innings of the match, they got the wake-up call after conceding 150 odd leads tried to comeback and bowled much better in the second innings but it was all too late and australia rarely miss moments like these.

The margin of defeat is hard to digest easily. Aus dominated India on a pitch where indian victory was written all over it. On a pitch where indian batsmen were the most likely to flourish aussie batsmen came victorious. and ofcourse the difference SOK.. he stuck to his plan and got rewards more importantly the much needed confidence.

whats more disheartening is the lack of fight from team India. If they've shown some fight and carried the match over to day 4 or 5, the respect peaks itself. When reality hits you and you dont see it, get ready for a debacle - thats exactly happened in this match. For more than 3 series, only Pujara and Kohli have shown intent while scoring runs as well. For starters, openers are not giving proper partnership for the past few matches - yes, they score runs esp Vijay/Rahul who does more within himself than being  a team man - this is a just a mental shift. And, then the out-of-form Rahane comes, he is out of sorts these days; sometimes not sure whether to attack or defend - he needs a quick break and a guarantee on his spot when ready. Nair/Pandey should play in the playing XI regardless of the pitch.  If not Saha, bring in Parthiv who can open the innings with some positive intent + a left hander. Ashwin and Jadeja shud settle to a line quickly and not panic when batsmen attack.

Today players make millions even if they r only average. Stars like Kohli make billons. They feel they r doing a favour by playing for India.

Worst batting in 2 years - nice statement, so now what??? same playing 11???
1. get rid of Kumble (one...sorry, no, 2 bad days at the office will become a bad month at the office at this rate followed by bad overseas tours)
2. drop Rahane for Karun Nair - enough chances and seniority / Mumbai 
3. drop Vijay for Mukund - tell Vijay to play domestic and English county
4. drop Saha for anybody else
5. tell Ashwin not to focus on soft dismissals and try to beat the batsmen / bowl tighter to put pressure.
6. get a solid 3rd spinner like Kuldip Yadav
7. got to have Shami and Umesh in tandem - get Shami back.
We need players with guts like the Aussies, who can hold onto infield catches like all other teams, not players who constantly suck up to Captain Kohli, hug him first after each dismissal and overdramatize small achievements on field.

I hope he is saying this because this is the first match and the series is still open. Better to manage the morale and technique issues internally than scratch at wounds in the open PC. BUT if he and the team management really believe this and we don't see better application and performance in the next match, then we are in for long term trouble. Previously, we had a captain who was willing to just dish out excuses and talk about processes. We don't want one who talks only in layman terms, 'good cricket, you win; bad cricket, you lose' is not acceptable at this level.

@BLACKCAPSBESTINTHEWORLD, Thanks mate, but don't congratulate them, it only encourages them! I think Kholi feels let down, for he has done so much for his team. He is still a quality act, people have to understand he or anyone for that matter, cannot perform every time. What this result has done is open the series up, interest is at an all time high, everyone from other countries are showing interest which can only be good for the game.

Rightly or wrongly Kohli will be judged more harshly for any slip-ups or blatant mistakes unlike MSD who was always considered non-serious in test matches.Kohli's nonchalant attitude does not help. He seems to be getting edgy and overly sensitive to any criticism. If he does not care about 'external perceptions' he will go the Dhoni way and is bound to get doomed by ignoring ground realities. He should accept that his arrogant behavior and atrocious selections are the main reason for this debacle. Fielding coach if any should be fired by now. No international team has this level of pathetic catchers. As Kohli admitted they deserved to be thrashed after that fielding performance.Depressing aspect for fans during MSD era was muted /stonewalling response to losses which at least is not the case now. But Kohli needs to watch his post match words too ,not to further agitate public by ill chosen words either.

Kohli continues establishing a name for himself as the most unlikable guy in international cricket. Sure, his batsmen played poorly, but refusing to credit the opposition when they bowled disciplined lines and applied relentless pressure with subtle variations just comes across as petulant. It's not like you're playing against the Wollongong 2nd XI out there and they just got lucky because you happened to throw it away, Kohli - this is a Test team that outplayed your team on every level, and that's why you lost. Your batsmen made mistakes because they were under pressure and they couldn't handle it. Somewhat ironic you wouldn't admit this considering that was your exact formula throughout that long winning streak. We didn't hear you say anything about the opposition throwing away those games. You just went on and on about how great your own bowlers are. Frankly, your gesticulations and body language on the field made you look childish, and this interview just compounds it. Grow up.

I dont think australia will be upset if the next pitch is a road. We knew it would be a turner the moment it was a road in the warm up. Question is once we win on a dead track what is next? Kohli is right, the pitch doesnt play the game for you, you have to play good cricket.

I think most important is how Indian team is going to respond. Some how opener are not able give a start and then if Virat fails, whole team fails.Indian batsmen were too defensive. Rahane is struggling and Vijay can not play spin. Aussie should be given credit they hire Panesar and he used his experience to beat India, way England beat India last time. Now its time for Indian team team to show some character

huge respect to Kohli for being honest. Now I am starting to like this guy. Captaincy has made him a mature man.

N"No big deal,just another match" absolutely rubbish from the international captain,you don't have pride for your country ,I take this comment as an insult india as  whole.Not expected this sort of comment from an international captain. Pure arrogance, should be sacked as a captain for insulting the whole country.

Well played Australia. This series is going to be interesting now. I just loved to watch how aussies batted against Ashwin and Jadeja. They stick to their plans and applied themselves. On the other hand, India was trapped in their own net. But they will comeback hard. I believe India have some big problems in their opening and Lower middle order. When Kohli perform they all are good, when he don't, most of them get demoralized. One more thing. Please! Some better pitches next time! Fans like me don't enjoy a test being ended in just three days!

What, no apologies Kohli for those appalling reviews? I could see from my living room, the outs and the not outs, while you were there in a state of panic, making wrong decisions.They're down to you.

It's a match you are playing for your country and you lost... badly.  Of course it's a big deal.  Every single match should be a big deal and every loss should be considered an even bigger deal.  If I was a coach and my captain said this, I'd be really angry.

Virat was on the button on the batting, but it was really appalling to see the ugly hoick from KL Rahul in the 1st innings knowing fully well that he and Rahane were the last specialist batsmen and it was imperative that they stay together for a long time to ensure that INdia got nearer to the Australian total. What was surprising is that most of the Indian batsmen got out defending except for a couple of cases and this despite a recent statement from them during the England series, that England were not positive. These guys have faced bad weather earlier also and yet were able to bounce back, then what happened in this match? While there not be a drastic change in the team, there should be a clear message that nobody can take their position for granted and Rahane and KL Rahul should start delivering. Murali needs to be more consistent as off late he scores a century and a fifty once each in 4 matches and doesn't do much apart from that.Bounce back guys, and do justice to the No 1 Rank

Kohli is right on a pathetic batting display but defensive on the bowling. Both Jadeja and Ashwin should have realised that on this wicket, there was no point in Spinning the ball too much as t wold only result in beating the edge; they persisted with it despite seeing that it was not getting them wickets. Ashwin got wickets with balls that turned little and so did Jadeja, then why wasnt this very obvious fact not recognised by them? Jayant had Nil variations of space and was not wanting to learn from the so called Only Decent Australian bowler. Rankings are good but then they should not be taen to mean that there is no learning from Decent bowlers on tactics.

Kohli needed to step up. He should take alot of blame. Well played Australia. Truly impressive stuff. Congrats @MIKEPATT @AUSSIENSW

People are making too much out of one loss. Get over it!
Things will improve from now on. It's a good idea to taste defeats every now and then to keep them true and give younger players something to think about. Wins won't feel like wins if you keep winning. Imagine to win the series coming from behind, like that famous win after following on (BTW: that defeat for Aussies change their mindset forever regrading the follow-on). 
Just enjoy the game of cricket!!!!!!!!!!!

India's strength has always been their batting. It always has been, and probably always will be. If it fails, India generally fail. Throughout the years, only three Indian bowlers have really stood out - Kapil Dev, A. Kumble and Z. Khan. No-one else has really caused much consternation for batsmen worldwide. Ashwin and Jadeja are both pie-chuckers outside the SC. At times during this match, they just looked like pie-chuckers full stop. Shami and U. Yadav are actual bowlers. Maybe India should throw some more resource into developing guys like that, rather than invest so much time turning out pitches like we just saw. Spending time working on fielding doesn't hurt either. It seems to be an undervalued skill in the SC. (SL excepted) Anyway, c'mon Smudge and the boys, three draws will do it, but you've got the momentum now, and certainly the personnel and belief to get two more wins!

Kohli wont say it but would have realized that loyalty does not help, performance and perseverance does. Shastri-Kohli duo did everything possible to derail Pujara &Vijay to some extent by chopping and changing for WI and following series. Credit to Pujara that he came out of it a winner whereas any other player would have lost his bearings. KL Rahul, Rahane,Ishant and Jayant seem to be Kohli's favorites but all of them are mediocre players with KL an exception at-least in terms of his talent, only temperament needs to be worked on.But Ishant,Rahane and Jayant are just mediocre , low-confidence players with pathetic body language. Jayant is over-rated, no special variations to surprise batsmen and monotonous line/speed of bowling. Agree with most here that Kuldeep should be tried out. The primary reason for this defeat is Kohli. His awful selections of dropping Nair and persisting with Rahane despite repeated failures messed up team's balance.5 batsmen theory must be buried now.

Everything was right I am saying that if the wicket will be like this first match the result will be same we must sure. About it

Whatever you say about Virat one thing sure. He talks straight from the heart, does not beat around the bush, gives credit where it's due and moves on! He also knows where things have gone wrong and does not give credence to things out of his gambit. Plain and simple, he and fellow batters let India down and also the catching. Plus the Aussie spinners bowled and used the conditions better than our spinners. As simple as that. No need to change the team. Just play with more intent and better planning.

The pitch is to blame for a nonsense of a contest, India's batsmen for some rubbish shots but the party who takes the lion's share of the blame for India's loss is Australia  and that's for playing so well. The spinners outspun India's and contributions from all their batsmen is reminiscent of England's win in India in 2012-13 with Swann and Panesar. India may have batted badly but we'll see from the rest of the series whether it was due to their lack of application or because of the quality of the opposition.

Kohli is right. Its the batting. Psychologically its hard to play with calmness when the pitch is getting worse and you are behind. The team which wins the toss always bat first. And its really hard for the team which loses the toss. Any time they lose a couple of wickets the pressure is on them. Australia should replace Marsh bothers because they need runs to put pressure. Say india wins the toss they are going to score 400 runs. Then Australia needs that type of batting depth.

Whatever the reason might be ,No1 team doesn't deserve to play like this & that too on their own backyard. Have seen enough of this team for now. At times they create false assurances to their fans that all is well and all is going to be well.but crumble sadly. If they fair like this at home ,you can forget of them winning abroad . Now that ausies got a 1-0 lead they will take it from here and make it atleast 2-0 by end of series.No way are they gonna loose this series.I have no trust in this Indian lineup.You have players who are inconsistent and always play wanting to prove something personally and not for the team.Poor field .worst spin bowling except Jaddu. Overrated Ashwin must be dropped for atleast couple of tests. let him go introspect whats going wrong with him.All other ind fans have fun & watch this team crumble more as matches go by. nxt up -70all out , See you India when you play abroad.Until then have fun, good luck with what ever happens to you in this series.

I absolutely do not understand the role of Jayant Yadav in the team. Ironically he has played well to his potential. The question is batting at 9 you need a full blooded bowler. He is a mild spin bowler. Those gentle straight dollies he bowls. Not at all international class. If at all he has batted better than his main role bowling. Wonder what team management thinks. Ashwin n Jadeja are already all-rounders. So why need another all-rounder like Jayant. What batting cushion you need at no.9? India needs mystery element like Kuldeep Yadav some one hard to pick. Batsmen will have two hard tasks to do at a time, whether to read pitch or read bowler. India doesn't need those gentle dollies from Jayant Yadav.

Indian players looked unprepared for this game. They probably expected the Australians to surrender easily and when Aussies fought hard players were caught napping. That 94/3 to 105 all out strongly suggested that batsmen were not expecting an examination at all which is quite foolish in an international game.

India should worry about O'Keefe having a series like Swann and Panesar.  Lyon played second fiddle in this match.  India should worry about him as well.  Now that Australia have tasted blood they are going to be difficult contenders.  I am predicting them to go on to become the #1 rated team by the end of the series.

@altafpatel - spot on buddy! We won but played utterly spinelessly against rookie SA spinners. So batting was a concern against spin of any sort. Guess that was the reason they made conscious effort to pull batsmen into form by making flat pitches against NZ and Eng. Fact is both those teams were nowhere as close to Oz in terms of fight or skill-set. Again, overconfidence and living in a cocoon of wins without analyzing the opponent and not learning from old mistakes of awful catching has brought the team crashing down.

Harbajan Singh seems to be very quiet, his prediction of 'if Australia play well they'll lose 3-0' not so wise......

Batting is a paradox. You cannot drop KL, Vijay,Pujara who scored 100s in the last series but they form the core as we only have 5 anyway.Captain Kohli's miserable performance can be excused as an aberration after a stupendous season thus far. But Rahane can surely be dropped and Nair brought in. Also time to look for fresh, upcoming youngsters who don't carry any baggage. Right time to pick Shreyas Iyer who was at ease against the same Oz attack. Pant should be tried as Saha is just a one-dimensional player who is so meek as a player-not just batsman while dealing with DRS. He cannot speak up to Kohli who's the worst captain of judging DRS. Moreover arrogance and lack of planning against the opponent has crushed them this time. Kohli knew they were going to come prepared but utterly failed ourselves in negotiating spin.This is not just a wakeup call but mirror to our over-confidence, failures on planning ,fielding drills/discipline and pathetic spineless display of skills.

Kohli should be dropped from the next test as a lesson for being complacent as the captain. the lesser said about pujara, kl rahul, saha and ishant, the better.

Now all are putting pressure on Kohli, Pujara or others. Why? This can happen. Its just a match not a series decider. I don't think O'keefe is going to get lots of wickets in next matches. Good show from Aus but still not a great difference between them. Starc may be the difference but what about Ashwin? He's gonna be tougher than this match. Forget all this nonsense commenting, praise both the team for putting a show. Good luck to both the teams

Guys,
Cool it. They had a great run... and now because of one loss you are preaching. After all in cricket an inch this or that way makes a difference.  They would be fine..

The two Aussie spin bowlers bowled far more wicket taking deliveries than our 3 twirlers. If points were awarded for beating the bat with a bonus for each inch past the bat, we would have won this Test by an innings.

And therein lies the lesson for Ashwin and Jadeja. We have DRS now which is a big advantage. If you bowl at the stumps, you have two possible modes of dismissal: lbw and bowled. If you're looking for the edge, you need to bowl the perfect length, and you still need the luck for the edge to carry behind and still hope for non-butter fingered catchers. No contest.

Ashwin bowled too short allowing the batsman to pick the length. His penchant for the "carrom ball" meant frequent boundary deliveries too. The shorter length allowed for greater spin which looks great on TV but is non-effective. Ironically, he should have kept it a little shorter when bowling to Starc who was looking for the big shots. Finally, that carrom ball? Difficult to control and a tad overpraised.

I am curious to know who decides on what kind of pitch the match wants? Is it the coach or the board or the home captain, or the visiting captain ? As per virat kohli, it was not him, then who? Who? Dial sherloc homes for an investigation

ABU_ZAY - pitch was not watered for 4 days, hence it was this dry. This was totally intentional by curator. He could have easily put some grass and watered the pitch a bit more to account for hot conditions

@Sir_Ivor: Agreed 100%. I shuddered when I read his interview, it reminded me of that old Gent from Kolkata during England's victorious 2012 tour when he made a fuss with MSD and got himself plenty of press. Here at Pune, the former fast bowler has now produced two very different tracks in India's last two intl matches. Against SL in a T20 game, it was a wicket most unexpected - green, seaming and plenty of bounce.

Preparing flat tracks is going to back fire as well, given how determined Aus batting was they will smash 700 on flat tracks

@vivek7896-BCCI allows Indian players to play in English counties so dont think BCCI will prevent them from playing in Sheffield Shield of Aus & SupersportSeries of SA. Playing in IPL held each year does give the non-Indian players feel of Indian pitches & style of bowling which is harmful to home advantage that India has a right to get vs visiting team. Wish that Indian players demand to start playing in Australian shield cricket every year if Aus players are to be allowed to play in IPL every year.

This reality check was done in test series vs SA in 2015. but the series win buried all weaknesses.

Finally, India has a true leader in Virat and his mindset augurs well for Indian Cricket. If you want to win, be prepared to loose. Less we forget, recently Ozzies got bulldozed in Hobart by SA, which turned out to wake-up call for them.

Problem with Indian batsman is they never play reverse sweep.
Reverse sweep is pretty easy shot that sweep.
but No one plays these shota from India.On rank turners reverese sweep is very usefull stroke.
and karun play both reverse and Normal sweep.Please play karun for atleast one series.
rahane is our hero overseas.He will come back.

Memoriesofthepast a few things first majority of your observations seem overboard either you dont know much about cricket or commented for the sake of commenting. S.Sriram is not contracted to BCCI and is free to offer his services to anyone who asks for it. MRF pace foundation where indian bowlers are trained was managed by Dennis Lille for a long time so the entire arguement of yours seems absurb mate. Indian players not playing in other leagues is because BCCI never allowed contracted Indian players to play elsewhere only people without contracts play

Cric Doc Monty n OKeefee may be ordinary as you claim they are but as an Indian I do have a question for you what stopped the worlds best test bowlers no1,2 to do what the so called ordinary bowler did. This ordinary bowler had a match figure of 12-70 but the world no1 test bowler gave away 120 odd runs in one innings. If someone has done a good work appreciate it rather than saying bad things

If its so dry in pune why was the outfield green , oh and the rest of the square  only 22 yards by 4 yards were dry as a martini !

Yes it is fine to lose a Match but being thrashed so overwhelmingly by an overseas team in your own backyard is humiliating. So Mr. Kohli, wake up & focus especially on fielding & batting. Dropping 5 catches of Smith is horrendously bad when you do not have the luxury of even one dropped catch. Giving 57 to Starc is bad. Kuldip Yadav would have provided some variety to spinners instead of Jayant. Failing to bowl fuller length on a turner is poor, tactically.So there were lot of tactical errors in addition to some atrotiously poor batting. As regards fight back after Galle Loss, It was a solo fight back from Pujara with 145* that gave India the victory. Unfortunately, even Pujara failed here. Time to rethink & get guys who can hold catches. It is heart breaking for bowlers with such bad fielding. India also need some younger talented guys like Iyer, Surya kumar instead of the same old failing bats. Fight back involves: First accepting your short comings + eliminating them!

Now it would be interesting to know what "strong instructions" goes to curators of the pitches of remaining test matches..according to me the overconfidence and underestimating inexperienced OZ is the main reason for this one of the worst defeat..

For everyone claiming Indian team asking for pitches, they are totally clueless on two accounts. Firstly, this is hot nd humid summer in India and al the pitches are gonna be dry. Hopefully Bangalore wud retain the moisture a bit coz of its geographical location nd cloud settings of western ghats. That wud prompt the second question. People think watering down the ground is as easy as watering down their lawn. With the severe water scarcity in Maharashtra and Northern parts of India, where even there is a shortage of drinking water, it's of utmost impossible to maintain the moisture and grippiness of the surface over a period of time. The curator maybe overconfident in the amount of watering needed here nd let's not forget that this is the first test match in Pune nd none predicted this much of dryness under sweltering heat. Aussies played a lot better and they won it fair. Neither Kohli nor Kumble are interested in truners. Bt Aus fans anyway not gonna accept any reasoning. Are they?

Everyone here in India has some or rather advice to put across. Matter of fact that this is a unique scenario when our batsmen failed in both innings does not justify any knee jerk reaction. Vk and team should go to drawing board and replays of match to rectify the mistakes whether its technical or strategy. Main worry has been with DRS utilisation where Vk n co have to devise some strategy or look forward to the ways of Ausies or English

Kohli & all Indian team is most egoistic arrogant bunch ever seen.
Learn from other country's cricketers how they behave with their fans

Kohli that is a fair statement, firstly you should get your faults corrected of how to not to bat. Then please throw away unfit oldies like Saha, Sharma, Vijay and Rahanae and bring in some energetic players like V Shankar, D Hooda, Lad, P Chopra, Agarwal still many to count. R Jadeja, when will he learn to bat, we have not kept him just as a bowler, atleast he should contribute something in bat. Rahanae's failure and selection cannt be justified. Bowlers have done their part very well here but batsmans ir-responsible batting have cost us this match. It does not matter how many matches we have won before this failure, but its all about how hardly we fought to avoid this failure. Failures are inevitable, but poor show is not acceptable. Vijays batting clearly shows that he has lost the track, he can only watch the balls closely and nothing much. Pujara does not even know ball is spinning. Someone should attack when we are losing wickets but its other way, everyone is coming & returning

oh well, the team's invincibility was being hyped up by media, and it all came crashing down. after laying out under-prepared pitches to counter SA, and finally coming to terms with decent pitches against England, I wonder why the Indian team felt the need to lay out a turner against Australia again. If you are so confident of your skills, then why hedge so much against the toss?

Kohli has never in the past gone public in regard to pitch preparation . So it seems reliable to accept that he had not had a say in the pitch preparation. It seems more like the handiwork of a fast bowler of the past trying his hand in doing a job he is not used to. Remember , he had said that the balls will fly. The thing to understand is that a pitch cannot be made without a proper mixing of the various types of mud. Said more clearly, it means red ,black and the normal sandy mix. I hope India can bounce back.

For cricket this was a horrible pitch!!!! The host country has the right to have its preferred pitch but this right should not be abused and pitches should be supporting. We have seen teams like Pak disadvantaged in even ICC events as pitches/ venues purely against them eg Pak vs Aus in Perth in last WC. This is no less than fixing but fine if done by the so called big 3 mafia.

It was J. Jadavs bowling that started downfall of India.  He looked a very ordinary bowler without any intelligency. Any street bowler would have done better on this pitch. Then the fielding from Tamilnadu softies. Is not a fault of their own. They are very mild veganists.  Just below par.

Mr Kohli why did you simply let that ball go? Were you tracing line of O'keefe ? Or judging pitch ..whter curator done his job well or not.. Hello captain, its very clear that when you opened balling with R Ashwin in first day of first over then its obvious that pune wicket is rank turner as everyone witnessed and surprised how could dust flying so early from surface after ball pitching.. and ball turning lot . Pune surface is none other than dustbowl typical rank turning wicket.India has world class batting line up ,so better pitch should be batting track for atleast first 3 days. Otherwise opponets are equipped with spin ammunition to deal with Team india. Looking for good competitive pitches for remaining test matches ..

If we prepare rank turners an ordinary spinner like sok will look like world class that too from day 2. This happened in 2012 too with monty. If monty is a world class spinner what happened to his career after 2012. It went nowhere. Bcci , stop preparing this rank turners. Otherwise even Glen maxwell will get 5 fer

India fell to its own "plan", nothing to blame on the pitch. It was a much better match/pitch than those played on flat tracks were over 500 is scored just for the loss of few wickets. Prepare more competitive pitches and make test matches alive. If this a batsmans era, then they should be really tested to come out as the best, just like how Steve Smith did on this test. Any good player can score a hundred or a double or even more on a flat track, scoring them on a difficult track make them the so called BATSMAN.

One knows that Kohli is a fighter and that he will make amends for his poor scores in this test. However, he should take some hard decisions such as dropping Rahane in favour of Karun. Rahane is a wonderful player of pace bowling but has been tentative against good spinners on turning tracks. Kohli should also bring in Kuldeep Yadav who can be the mystery bowler to attack the Australian batsmen. I have seen Mayank Agarwal and he seems to be just the right kind of batsman to hit the Aussie bowlers off their length. Mayank also plays spin bowling really well. It may not be a bad idea to try him out at home as Vijay seems to be nearing the end of his career.

Kohli's comments are very different than what Dhoni used to say.  I think that Kohli is smart enough to realize what needs to be done and will make the necessary changes.   He doesn't blame others for the shortcomings.  India's batting and fielding was much below par.  The turning pitches will not aid India because their batsmen are not capable of playing spin since most of them have been raised playing T20 (remember SA just over a year ago?).  If the batsmen don't perform, then bowling Australia out for 260 and 280 doesn't mean much.

BCCI allowing new venues like Pune or Dharmashala directly for India-Aus test is harmful for India. Indian government must not allow an Indian citizen like S.Sriram to coach Aus team vs India & leak out the secrets. Karun Nair looks better than Rahane. Indian fielders played as if they were playing for Aus-Abhinav Mukund & Vijay dropped 3 chances offered by Smith but Holcombe grabbed the chances in India's 1st innings. IPL must not allow Aus or SA players to participate if IPL is held in India. English players are acceptable as English counties allow Indians but I have never heard of or seen Indian playing in Aus or SA internal cricket.

This loss will check the character of this team. Honestly this was as big a "thrashing" a team can get in any test. Such thrashing can put the moral of a team down just like 2012 English tour here. From outside even as an Indian fan I feel 'now' Aus can win this series 2-1 or 3-1, but lets see what can this young Indian team do in the next match. All the best to both teams.

Comeon Kohli lets.. first admit pune pitch was rank turner dustbowl wicket.  Team india trapped its own web. Oz spinners spun india out of this game. In the first place,Having world class spinners in our side, we shouldnt be laying such rank turner surafaces. India has gr8 batting line up ,so pitches should offer batting friendly for atleast first 3 days then if they start turning eas to west its fair enough but if ashwin start with new glittering ball first over then imagine what sort of wicket india is offering for match. Its clear that planexpect oppoenets also hav same ammunition to deal with when t

Well said, Virat. very balanced reaction under, I am sure, most hurting loss. Few learnings for sure for you as captain on how to use DRS most effectively and also, to grab big moments in matches against Aus and don't let them come back. Example - 1st day, Aus 205-9 should have been bowled out for 210-215. You should haven't taken new ball, persisted with Umesh and Ashwin to finish off the last wicket. People don't realise that DRS is new to India and so you can make mistakes but as you said, learn from them and win like you can.

Sensible comments Kohli. I still back us to win the series. We came back in srilanka, Remember even Eng were 0-1 in the first 2 matches against us in 2014 but went on to win the series. But please do not prepare rank turners. They are not a good sight even for us. We do not want to see a 175 good enough kind of pitches. Pitches like last Eng series at home should be good though

Sensible comments Kohli. I still back us to win the series. We came back in srilanka, Remember even Eng were 0-1 in the first 2 matches against us in 2014 but went on to win the series. But please do not prepare rank turners. They are not a good sight even for us. We do not want to see a 175 good enough kind of pitches. Pitches like last Eng series at home should be good though

Well said, Virat. very balanced reaction under, I am sure, most hurting loss. Few learnings for sure for you as captain on how to use DRS most effectively and also, to grab big moments in matches against Aus and don't let them come back. Example - 1st day, Aus 205-9 should have been bowled out for 210-215. You should haven't taken new ball, persisted with Umesh and Ashwin to finish off the last wicket. People don't realise that DRS is new to India and so you can make mistakes but as you said, learn from them and win like you can.

Comeon Kohli lets.. first admit pune pitch was rank turner dustbowl wicket.  Team india trapped its own web. Oz spinners spun india out of this game. In the first place,Having world class spinners in our side, we shouldnt be laying such rank turner surafaces. India has gr8 batting line up ,so pitches should offer batting friendly for atleast first 3 days then if they start turning eas to west its fair enough but if ashwin start with new glittering ball first over then imagine what sort of wicket india is offering for match. Its clear that planexpect oppoenets also hav same ammunition to deal with when t

This loss will check the character of this team. Honestly this was as big a "thrashing" a team can get in any test. Such thrashing can put the moral of a team down just like 2012 English tour here. From outside even as an Indian fan I feel 'now' Aus can win this series 2-1 or 3-1, but lets see what can this young Indian team do in the next match. All the best to both teams.

BCCI allowing new venues like Pune or Dharmashala directly for India-Aus test is harmful for India. Indian government must not allow an Indian citizen like S.Sriram to coach Aus team vs India & leak out the secrets. Karun Nair looks better than Rahane. Indian fielders played as if they were playing for Aus-Abhinav Mukund & Vijay dropped 3 chances offered by Smith but Holcombe grabbed the chances in India's 1st innings. IPL must not allow Aus or SA players to participate if IPL is held in India. English players are acceptable as English counties allow Indians but I have never heard of or seen Indian playing in Aus or SA internal cricket.

Kohli's comments are very different than what Dhoni used to say.  I think that Kohli is smart enough to realize what needs to be done and will make the necessary changes.   He doesn't blame others for the shortcomings.  India's batting and fielding was much below par.  The turning pitches will not aid India because their batsmen are not capable of playing spin since most of them have been raised playing T20 (remember SA just over a year ago?).  If the batsmen don't perform, then bowling Australia out for 260 and 280 doesn't mean much.

One knows that Kohli is a fighter and that he will make amends for his poor scores in this test. However, he should take some hard decisions such as dropping Rahane in favour of Karun. Rahane is a wonderful player of pace bowling but has been tentative against good spinners on turning tracks. Kohli should also bring in Kuldeep Yadav who can be the mystery bowler to attack the Australian batsmen. I have seen Mayank Agarwal and he seems to be just the right kind of batsman to hit the Aussie bowlers off their length. Mayank also plays spin bowling really well. It may not be a bad idea to try him out at home as Vijay seems to be nearing the end of his career.

India fell to its own "plan", nothing to blame on the pitch. It was a much better match/pitch than those played on flat tracks were over 500 is scored just for the loss of few wickets. Prepare more competitive pitches and make test matches alive. If this a batsmans era, then they should be really tested to come out as the best, just like how Steve Smith did on this test. Any good player can score a hundred or a double or even more on a flat track, scoring them on a difficult track make them the so called BATSMAN.

If we prepare rank turners an ordinary spinner like sok will look like world class that too from day 2. This happened in 2012 too with monty. If monty is a world class spinner what happened to his career after 2012. It went nowhere. Bcci , stop preparing this rank turners. Otherwise even Glen maxwell will get 5 fer

        We use cookies to help make this website better, to improve our services and for advertising purposes. You can learn more about our use of cookies and change your browser settings in order to avoid cookies by clicking 
In their most dominant performance on the tour of New Zealand so far, South Africa regained the one-day series lead with the kind of showing that coach Russell Domingo believes typifies their new style of play. 

It is a brand of cricket built on shared responsibility with new members of the squad as able to contribute as some of the stalwarts. ' career-best 3 for 5 from 5.2 overs on the back of a maiden half-century in Christchurch is the best example of it.

"It's been a feature of our side's performances over the last year that the younger players have all come in and put in performances straight away which speaks a lot about where the team is at the moment and the culture of the group," Domingo said. "It's always pleasing when some new players are stepping up nor relying on one or two players."

Although AB de Villiers, who became the fastest to 9000 ODI runs, was the man of the moment in Wellington, South Africa's recent ODI successes have been built on the foundations de Kock has laid. As he did in Test cricket last year, de Kock has reeled off five consecutive fifty-plus scores in ODIs. He has yet to convert one of his three in New Zealand into a century, but Domingo brushed that off as part of the game. 

"He has got a phenomenal rate of transferring those fifties to hundreds so I'm sure he'd be disappointed he hasn't got a hundred because he is playing as well as he has ever played. I suppose he would feel a little disappointed in the manner of some of his dismissals. That's the nature of how he plays.

"He is such an aggressive player and I by no means want to curb his natural instinct. He is an x-factor player and some days he is going to get it wrong and that's okay but on the days he gets it right, he is going to win the game for you. He is still a baby, its hard to believe he is only 24. We've had some great players play international cricket for South Africa, who've got 10 or 11 hundreds in 200 games. He has got 12 in 77. That's a phenomenal return for a young player like that."

At this early stage of de Kock's career, he already lies sixth on South Africa's ODI century-makers' list above a big name like Graeme Smith. The former captain played 196 ODIs and scored 10 centuries, de Kock could go on to double or even treble that. Also below de Kock is , who has played 170 ODIs and only has four hundreds to his name, three against Zimbabwe and one against Netherlands.
. In that time, he has managed just four fifties. Although he can cite limited opportunity- Duminy usually bats at No.5, behind players who don't often leave him with many overs to face - by his own admission, there have been chances wasted.

After the Christchurch ODI, where he was given a chance at No 4, Duminy explained he understood he needed to step up. "A lot of us got in but we didn't take it home for the team. That's something we need to look at - especially myself, getting in and not taking it home for the team," he said.

He was unable to in Wellington, where he was run-out and his string of low scores - only one over 30 in seven innings - could raise concerns, especially with Farhaan Behardien waiting on the bench.

Some pressure for his place may be just what Duminy needs to kickstart a change in fortunes, as it did in Tests. After being dropped last summer during the series against England, Duminy returned with a much improved mindset and scored two important hundreds, in Perth and in Johannesburg, to prove he still has plenty to offer. The upcoming Tests will be another chance for Duminy to build on that progress.

Eight members of the Test squad, who are not part of the limited-overs outfit, will arrive in Auckland on Sunday, where they will begin a week-long camp. Batting coach Neil McKenzie and fitness trainer Greg King will break away from the ODI group to oversee the Test players' preparations. South Africa do not have a warm-up match before the series starts in Dunedin on March 8 but all their players have been in action in the domestic one-day cup.
, who are the favourites to make up a pace pack with Kagiso Rabada, although South Africa have three other quicks in reserve. Rabada , with South Africa well aware of his importance to every XI. Rabada was left out of the Christchurch game with a knee niggle and returned in Wellington and Domingo has explained that its unlikely Rabada will be given time off with the series still on the line.

"It's a fine line between resting players and trying to win series. You've got to try and and manage that process quite carefully, particularly for a guy like KG. I read the other day that he bowled 200 overs more than anybody else in the last year. He is only 21," Domingo said. "But its hard to leave KG out of the next game in Hamilton. He is a seriously good bowler and it's no coincidence that when he is back in the mix, we look a seriously good side."

i am sorry but this excuses parade as to why duminy has not scored a proper century in over 2 years while batsman that batted below him scored shows his form. it's high time this guy gets dropped we cannot afford this in the championship in England layer on. 170 odd games only 4 centuries and all 4 against minnows. Just noy good enough. I don't buy the excuse of batting at 5 miller scores centuries at 6 so why should it be any different for duminy?  stop the lame duck excuses and start performing.

If I were SA I'd rest Rabada for the first test and so if Morne still has his magic. Rabada needs a rest to make sure he doesn't burn out and this will give selectors the chance to get a look at Morne's fitness and whether he can get through 15-25 overs in an innings. NZ conditions don't exactly need the greatest bowlers to rip through lineups either as we saw with De Grandhomme who is a medium pace trundler taking 6 for little to nothing against Pakistan (that on debut)

i am sorry but this excuses parade as to why duminy has not scored a proper century in over 2 years while batsman that batted below him scored shows his form. it's high time this guy gets dropped we cannot afford this in the championship in England layer on. 170 odd games only 4 centuries and all 4 against minnows. Just noy good enough. I don't buy the excuse of batting at 5 miller scores centuries at 6 so why should it be any different for duminy?  stop the lame duck excuses and start performing.

If I were SA I'd rest Rabada for the first test and so if Morne still has his magic. Rabada needs a rest to make sure he doesn't burn out and this will give selectors the chance to get a look at Morne's fitness and whether he can get through 15-25 overs in an innings. NZ conditions don't exactly need the greatest bowlers to rip through lineups either as we saw with De Grandhomme who is a medium pace trundler taking 6 for little to nothing against Pakistan (that on debut)

If I were SA I'd rest Rabada for the first test and so if Morne still has his magic. Rabada needs a rest to make sure he doesn't burn out and this will give selectors the chance to get a look at Morne's fitness and whether he can get through 15-25 overs in an innings. NZ conditions don't exactly need the greatest bowlers to rip through lineups either as we saw with De Grandhomme who is a medium pace trundler taking 6 for little to nothing against Pakistan (that on debut)

i am sorry but this excuses parade as to why duminy has not scored a proper century in over 2 years while batsman that batted below him scored shows his form. it's high time this guy gets dropped we cannot afford this in the championship in England layer on. 170 odd games only 4 centuries and all 4 against minnows. Just noy good enough. I don't buy the excuse of batting at 5 miller scores centuries at 6 so why should it be any different for duminy?  stop the lame duck excuses and start performing.

        We use cookies to help make this website better, to improve our services and for advertising purposes. You can learn more about our use of cookies and change your browser settings in order to avoid cookies by clicking  has been ruled out of the Test series against Bangladesh as the hamstring injury that has ailed him since January 22 continues to pose problems. Sri Lanka's selectors are expected to name the Test squad on Tuesday, and with it, the replacement captain.

This will be the second Test series Mathews has missed over a six-month span, with multiple leg injuries also  from touring Zimbabwe in October and November. He had played a substantial amount of cricket in the two years leading up to this period, representing Sri Lanka in all three formats, as well as leading the team in the 2015 World Cup, in last year's World T20, and in Tests.
 had filled in as captain during the Zimbabwe Test series, and it is possible he will be picked for the role again. However, regular vice-captain  - who had also missed the Zimbabwe tour through injury - may also be considered for the captaincy in this series. Upul Tharanga, who led Sri Lanka in the recent ODIs against South Africa and the T20s in Australia, represents a third option. Neither Chandimal or Tharanga have previously led Sri Lanka in a Test.

The first Test starts in Galle from March 7, before the action moves to the P Sara Oval, from March 15. 

A Sri Lanka Cricket release said Mathews was "likely" to be available for the ODI and T20 series that follow the Tests.

This is going to be a tough series for Srilanka. But I feel we are slightly head of bangladesh with the kind of spinners we have and some of the batters specially play in the home condition. But BD are the most improve team in past year or so. So we have to play really good to beat them. Looking foreword to the series. Good luck for both the teams.

Wow some serious Kool-aid CRICFAN564789.   Batting 2nd in T20s is hardly inventine, it is safer as you know what total you are chasing. As for deftly using his bowlers, quite a few got pumelled. It was mainly Malinga that made the difference. I really can't understand all this fuss over Tharanga - he has no charisma and did bugger all with the bat. A decent player but nothing to fawn over.

For the love of God don't make it Tharanga. I'm all for him being in the side but he's not suited to captaincy and needs to focus on his batting (and fielding!).

We love SL cricket team and wishing both teams a great series ahed . This loss won't effect anything I believe . From a BD fan

This what Aussie Cricbuzz had to say about Tharanga's captaincy in it's talking point; inventive captaincy negated his failure with the bat (to make big scores in this t20 series). After taking the reins from an injured Angelo Mathews, Smartly, Tharanga decided to bowl first in each of the matches which initially seemed a major gamble but, ultimately, proved a successful strategy. Tharanga rotated his bowlers deftly and used his menacing spinners mid-innings to continually stymie Australia's momentum. Undoubtedly, Tharanga outnumbered his opposite number Aaron Finch in a major tick of his leadership.

@Crickexp: What nonsense. When Sanga, Mahela retired, really who should have been the next Captain? But, what happened? Don't you remember, Tharanga was completely eliminated from the scene in mid 2013 for over 2+ straight years hardly allowing even any international exposure. Why? to Crown much junior Mathews guy as captain. Also, juniors like Thiri/Chandi were given zillion chances to fail apart from rewarding the vice captaincy. We all know what happened next, sinking series after series in every format. Now It is quite clear why Mathews never allowed UT to come up since then, by limiting his career to occasionally given solitary chance here & there with month to year apart in-between layoffs.  Eg: Axing for one year, just after a Test series defining  92, 45 scores in a decider Vs Pk 2014 & despite consecutive near fifties in both innings 48, 46 in the solitary test given after a year Vs Pk in Jun 2015, he was axed again in next series & never again allowed to bat in top order.

No need for a Mathews or Chandimal in SL Cricket. We have bad records with both of them in the team. They need to be replaced with two new comers!. both of them should play club cricket!!

What changed suddenly to consider Chandimal for the captaincy role? I thought he was told to go back to club cricket and work on his game. No disrespect to Ban but good series to test bench strength. Matthews might benefit from sheddding a few pounds, might be the key to managing his injuries.

This is going to be a tough series for Srilanka. But I feel we are slightly head of bangladesh with the kind of spinners we have and some of the batters specially play in the home condition. But BD are the most improve team in past year or so. So we have to play really good to beat them. Looking foreword to the series. Good luck for both the teams.

Wow some serious Kool-aid CRICFAN564789.   Batting 2nd in T20s is hardly inventine, it is safer as you know what total you are chasing. As for deftly using his bowlers, quite a few got pumelled. It was mainly Malinga that made the difference. I really can't understand all this fuss over Tharanga - he has no charisma and did bugger all with the bat. A decent player but nothing to fawn over.

For the love of God don't make it Tharanga. I'm all for him being in the side but he's not suited to captaincy and needs to focus on his batting (and fielding!).

We love SL cricket team and wishing both teams a great series ahed . This loss won't effect anything I believe . From a BD fan

This what Aussie Cricbuzz had to say about Tharanga's captaincy in it's talking point; inventive captaincy negated his failure with the bat (to make big scores in this t20 series). After taking the reins from an injured Angelo Mathews, Smartly, Tharanga decided to bowl first in each of the matches which initially seemed a major gamble but, ultimately, proved a successful strategy. Tharanga rotated his bowlers deftly and used his menacing spinners mid-innings to continually stymie Australia's momentum. Undoubtedly, Tharanga outnumbered his opposite number Aaron Finch in a major tick of his leadership.

@Crickexp: What nonsense. When Sanga, Mahela retired, really who should have been the next Captain? But, what happened? Don't you remember, Tharanga was completely eliminated from the scene in mid 2013 for over 2+ straight years hardly allowing even any international exposure. Why? to Crown much junior Mathews guy as captain. Also, juniors like Thiri/Chandi were given zillion chances to fail apart from rewarding the vice captaincy. We all know what happened next, sinking series after series in every format. Now It is quite clear why Mathews never allowed UT to come up since then, by limiting his career to occasionally given solitary chance here & there with month to year apart in-between layoffs.  Eg: Axing for one year, just after a Test series defining  92, 45 scores in a decider Vs Pk 2014 & despite consecutive near fifties in both innings 48, 46 in the solitary test given after a year Vs Pk in Jun 2015, he was axed again in next series & never again allowed to bat in top order.

No need for a Mathews or Chandimal in SL Cricket. We have bad records with both of them in the team. They need to be replaced with two new comers!. both of them should play club cricket!!

What changed suddenly to consider Chandimal for the captaincy role? I thought he was told to go back to club cricket and work on his game. No disrespect to Ban but good series to test bench strength. Matthews might benefit from sheddding a few pounds, might be the key to managing his injuries.

SL needs Mathews....Mathews needs to understand his situation....give up bowling as Arjuna did. Mathews wanted to bowl in SA and made a mess bowling with new ball.

Matthews need to figure this out. He is probably staying out on purpose to prove some point. For sometime he and Chandimal stifled the team by not giving chance to upcoming players. Now he is not getting his way and this is the result. On top of that Karunarathne is doing his usual things to get selected and ruin more test matches for SL.

Dimuth scored today AFTER he was shown the way first by Samarawickrama's good batting. You won't get a better opportunity than team like BD at home to try two new openers which has been our main problem.Even try Dickwella somewhere in the Tests dropping both present openers.

At least, three players picked for IPL which brings honor and revenue to SL.  Let them ready for IPL in good health and both Malinga and Angi should be included only for T20 BD series.  Please pick the captain first and let him involve in selecting the test squadDimuth always perform well in practice games and then fails in real test regularlyNevertheless 140 knock by experienced player should be seriously considered for test squad.  Hope both Sadeera and Pushpa get rewarded for good performance.  My test pool: Dimuth, Sadeera, Pushpa, Asela, Sachith, Milinda, Dhana, KMendis, UT, Niroshan, Herath and fulltime spinners and pacers.  UT handled well rotating bowlers and setting fielding in last series.  UT is unselfish team builder.  Please make UT as test captain and keep SL momentum flow forward to bring back the lost SL glory.

Mathews should not captain Sri Lankan team any more neither Chandimal. Everyone knows Mathews is a bad captain . Mathews chandimal captain vise captain period is the worst I have ever seen in  SL cricket.

@ Neilwani, agree like to see two new openers. However though Silva did not score big he spent sometime at the wicket in difficult circumstances in SA & he scored a century  in the last match in SL against Australia which gave us a win so unlikely he will be dropped. The fact that he is not in the A team like Dimuth points to that he is in the team.

My team for tests
1.Sandun Weerakkody 2.Upul Tharanga 3.Chandimal(c) 4.Mendis 5.Asela 6.Dhanajya 7.Dikwella(wk) 8.Lahiru Kumara 9.Nuwan Pradeep 10.Herath 11.Sandakan

ODI Team
1.Tharanga(c) 2.Dikwella(wk)/Weerakkody 3.Chandimal/Munaweera 4.Mendis 5.Mathews 6.Asela 7.Milinda/Kapugedara 8.Kula 9.Malinga 10.Vansersy/Sandakan 11.Lakmal/Sanjaya/Kumara

T20 Team
1.Tharanga(c)/Chandimal(C) 2.Dikwella 3.Munaweera 4.Weerakkody 5.Mathews 6.Asela 7.Milinda/Kapugedara 8.Kula 9.Malinga 10.Sandakan/Sekkuge 11.Sanjaya

It is not wise to change captaincy now when SL are playing well as a team.  Changing captain for two matches and then changing it again makes no sense when Tharanga has proved that he is the best captain we have had in recent times.

Wonder how he was picked in Ipl, he's gonna be injured for the entire tournament too..
Don't remember the last time he played a FULL(Tests, ODI, T20) Series....

There is a campaign going against Mathews and Chandimal led by few seniors who are trying to secure a place in SL team and take over the leadership and void filled by Sanga and Mahela..when Sanga and Mahela was there everybody else gathered around them and nobody tried to control the team..now SL cricket team has lost it's control as old players like Tharanga,Malinga,Kapugedara/etc trying to take the control of SL cricket

As a BD fan, I am really excited about this series. Beating SL in SL would would be tough but BD is a much improved side these days and I am sure they will put up a great competition.

Surprised that people are still considering Kaushal Silva as the first choice opening batsman. Selectors must consider Dickwella in Test matches too. Hope Dhananja De Silva and Mendis can regain form during the series. Sri Lanka need a leg spinner in Test matches.

The number of days that Mathews is injured is more than the number of days he has played cricket in his career. This shows the level of fitness in the Sri Lankan team. If the captain is that careless of his fitness, what example will he set for the youngsters in the team. He should learn some lessons from Virat who is a role model for not just the youngsters of India but also his team-mates.

I dont think selectors want to sink SL cricket further by selecting chandimal as a player.. Let alone the captaincy...

I dont think the team will feel the loss. They should continue with team they have at the moment.  He's also a overrated player like it was for Chandimal.

Good oppounity for Tharanga to show his skills. Either Herath or Tharanga should lead the team until chandi grooms bit more. Dimuth is opening batsman option whoever argues. Young players must groom for sometime before they play against test nations.

Chandimal can't even get into the team based on his performances. The chief selector himself said he needs to go back to 'club' cricket to work on basics. How can he be in contention for captaincy? Tharanga is barely making a comeback. I would say Herath is the only option for tests for now. In fact, Herath should be asked to withdraw his retirement from short formats. To me, he is still the best spinner in SL by some distance.

The extended break is not bad with the recent family reasons on the top.
However the selectors should closely evaluate the need for his below par bowling role. With his recurrent injuries for whatever reasons looming large , Mathew should captain & play purely as a batsman in the Tests. His bowling has been lately very ineffective & his mindset too deviates from taking a much more significant responsibility as a senior batsman. Bowling seems to be his get out option he uses to his advantage when fails in his batting. So we have a captain not playing a significant role in batting & using trundling as an excuse to be in the team. Sri Lankan team will gain more if Mathew plays only as a senior batsman in the Tests so the selectors have to look for more effective bowling options instead.

Do we still need to consider Mathews to captaincy. With such a poor fitness level we will have to regularly consider replacements to captain. Because, once he gets fit he will bowl in that tour and he will lose the shape to bat. By the end of the tour he is getting injured again and lose another one or two series.

Give this guy a rest and concentrate on his batting. Because he is the best middle order batsman we have at the moment. Make new captains for the shorter and longer formats. Mathews always try to bowl if he is the captain. I think he should be released from the captaincy burden and nurture as a pure batsman.

@A.JAYAWARDENE totally agree with you mate. Just before the last Zim tour Dimuth scored a century and got selected again. It seems Dimuth is doing the same thing here again. I don't know why, Sanath is so keen on bringing him to the team. He has got enough opportunities and never has proved himself. I think Ron, Sadeera and Pushpakumara should get the chances in the squad. Even though Malinda is also a left arm spinner he also should be in the team because, BD may have well prepared for Herath.

And more importantly we have missed the service of Herath for ODIs and T20. But we have found the ideal replacement from Malinda to be part in the shorter format too. Therefore he should represent the ODIs too.

If he is really injured he should rest and be ready for the IPL????? Herath should captain with Tharanga as deputy.

Herath should captain as Chandimal's form has been poor since his return after injury. Sri Lanka have been found wanting many times for allowing players straight into the team after injury without a proper assessment . Chameera's & his form in SA are two good examples. If Chandimal plays in the first & flops, the selectors should keep the door open to drop him from the second. On other hand  don't burden him with captaincy,even the vice captaincy burden did not go well with him.

That is big loss for SL. Mathews is one of the most consistent batsman that SL has. Hope he recovers well. BD is a very good team with lot of experience and many young talents. I think Herath should lead the team as he is the most experienced player. SL XI: Dimuth, Kaushal, Tharanga, Mendis, Asela, Chandi(wk), Dananjaya, Herath(C), Pushpakumara, Lakmal, Prasad (If he is not fit Pradeep)  Rest of the squad: Chameera(If not fit Sanjaya), Dilruwan or Sandakan, Sadeera (Can play as a wicke keeper batsman),

He always misses the easy series' doesnt he . Zimbabwe and bangladesh both now , no chance of bloating the average like the others

Drop Dimuth, he scored some runs today just as he did against WI A & got a trip to Zim & SA. Now will he be given another extended run for the umpteenth time? Why was he picked for the second A game when he was out for zeroes in the first. It is a MUST we introduce a new face as an opener at home against lowly BD  so that new one can find his feet. Either Chandragupta or Samarawickrama should be given a chance.We are getting India in the summer & Dimuth had a horrendous tour against them last time. At least one new opener should be tested against BD.

Except Chandimal anybody else should be a captain. No way Chandimal please, do not drown SL cricket with him

Kandi moon thank u very much good luck for Bangladesh too bcz u become a top team thanks to our coaching staff so this will be a eye catching series and i want Herath to lead in tests Tharanga to lead in odis and Malinga to lead in t20s when Mathews come back he can lead the test side but not the odis give Tharanga a consistent run in odis bcz he is our best player in odis at the moment close to 6000 runs and 14 hundreds

I don't understand why people hate Chandimal this much. He failed in SA test series where all SL batsman were failed to contribute with their bats. He needed a break from cricket for a while and he had enough of it. while Angelo isn't there in the middle SL need someone who has experience in International arena to lead the batsman to glory. We saw it in past England and Australia series as well. Chandimal is the ideal person to lead SL with his game reading ability in the middle. Rangana might be an experienced campaigner but we need someone to groom after Angelo. don't we?

Sadeera nearing his double but he will be totally neglected as Dimuth scored a century. Another disappointment for Sri Lanka.

Bangladesh is a very good team and performed really well in NZ.  I think they have the team chemistry which is very important in team sports.  On the other hand, SL is struggling to find 11 players who can play well together,  Angelo's absence make things harder for SL.  He brings stability to middle order batting.  I think he should focus on batting and not too much on bowling, if were to prolong his career.  This will be a good series to watch,

Dimuth Karanarathne Scored a Century against England Lions today..(As a Sri Lankan Fan i am really upset about that).

SL xi from Maharagama -K Silva Tharanga K Mendis Chandimal Gunaratne Dhananjaya Dickwella Pushpakumara Herath Lakmal Prasad  -bench players -Dilruwan Pradeep Dimuth L Kumara

Sadeera Samarawikrama is hitting century after century in first class matches and against england lions now he is 177 not out. This guy was really impressive in U19, and never looked back from there, he just continue to score. Unfortunately ron chandraguptha got out today, he also had a very good run in first class and batted well against England lions in series starter. These guys can be the solution for the dimuth, kaushal, kusal, tharanga problem we currently have.

Thanks to the almighty that the Indian fans are dejected after the historical loss against Aussies or else they would have mock our teams through out the comment section. Waiting for a good sporting series. BD fans have always great love the SL team.

If Mathews is unavailable, captaincy could be given to Herath with Tharanga as vice captain. In the absence of Mathews, we need some experience in the batting,
since we cannot take Bangladesh team lightly (how they performed in NZ).
Hence last & last opportunity could be given to openers Karunaratne/Kaushal Silva.   Moreover,  recent performance of Roshan Silva/Udara Jayasundera were not up to the mark.  My squad for the test series is; 1. Karunaratne 2.Kaushal Silva 3. Tharanga 4.Kusal Mendis 5. Chandimal 6. Dhananjaya de Silva 7. Dickwella 8. Asela Gunaratne 9. Herath 10. Dilruwan Perera  11. Lakshan Sandakan  12. Chameera 13. Lakmal 14.Pradeep 15. Lahiru Kumara or Prasad (if fit).

@ SL supporter : Sorry buddy. Dimuth will be opening the innings as SJ needs to give him a chance to hit back to form so that Dimuth can be in the team forever. But not to worry. Fizz is there a Dimuth wont last long against the strong BD attack and fail in both games. After about 20 such failures, Dimuth might get dropped

No issue Rangana should lead the team. But if that is the case Malinda Pushpakumara may not be picked who deserves a place in the team, unfortunately he is also a slow left arm spinner like Rangana. I think both Chandimal & Tharanga don't deserve places in the team. Niroshan can keep wickets & Asela should be picked for Mathews's place. Both Kusal Mendis & Dhananjaya De Silva should be given an extended run. My test team 1)Kaushal 2)Dimuth 3)Mendis 4)Dhananjaya 5)Milinda Siriwardana 6)Asela 7)Niroshan 8)Herath 9)Dhammika Prasad 10)Sandaken 11)Lahiru Kumara ODI team 1)Niroshan 2)Munaweera 3)Mendis 4)Dhananjaya 5)Angelo 6)Milinda 7)Asela 8)Malinga 9)Aponso/Malinda Pushpakumara 10)Lahiru Kumara 11)Chameera T20 Team 1)Niroshan 2)Munaweera 3)Kusal Janith 4)Angelo 5)Kapugedara 6)Milinda 7)Asela 8)Malinga 9)Kulasekara 10)Aponso/Malinda Pushpakumara 11)Chameera/Lahiru Kumara.

As a BD fan, happy bc this improves our chances slightly bc he's such a key and good player. As a cricket fan, hope he gets back to playing as soon as possible.

Big blow for SL., but its also eciting to see what playaers can fill his role. I hope at least one of our openers are gone and replaced with someone new. Not sure whether Chandimal will play because, sanath said he needs to go back to club cricket. thats not really something you would say if he was coming back into the team straightaway. Would like to see Dickwella play and also Samarawickrama come in who was being doing really well recently. He got promoted to the A team for the first time and is currently at 120 not out against the England Lions.

Oh yeah... Great news for sri lanka.. As long as matthews is injury sri lanka will be good team.. Time to give chance for tharanga as captain.. In test n as opener.. Tharanga performed well as captain.. We only need matthews as batsmen only..

I wonder if chandimal even gets picked in the squad. What's he done since getting dropped in SA to get a place in the team. He tries to keep wickets to pretend he contributes to the team in another way, when the real reason is he's a crappy fielder and doesn't want to be in the outfield. This keeps other talented players out of the team as well as he himself becomes a weight for the others to carry. 
Regarding Matthews, he should be ready in time for the upcoming IPL season, so can't risk playing for his national team. Both Matthews and Chandimal are 2 over-rated players in my mind.

When will Mathews learn he needs to lose weight. Malinga, Thisara have had injury problems and it's been mainly due to their weight and having to do a lot of running when you've got 95-110kg weighing you down instead of the 75kg or so that Chandimal probably weighs is going to injure you consistently. Class player but Mathews really just seems laid back sometimes guarantee though he'll be ready for his IPL stint.

Tigers are preparing hard for this series...let's see what happens! We expect a competitive series. GL for both of the team.

No Dinesh Chandimal again. He shouldn't be in the team. Upul Tharanga is the best option for Captaincy.

No Dinesh Chandimal again. He shouldn't be in the team. Upul Tharanga is the best option for Captaincy.

Tigers are preparing hard for this series...let's see what happens! We expect a competitive series. GL for both of the team.

When will Mathews learn he needs to lose weight. Malinga, Thisara have had injury problems and it's been mainly due to their weight and having to do a lot of running when you've got 95-110kg weighing you down instead of the 75kg or so that Chandimal probably weighs is going to injure you consistently. Class player but Mathews really just seems laid back sometimes guarantee though he'll be ready for his IPL stint.

I wonder if chandimal even gets picked in the squad. What's he done since getting dropped in SA to get a place in the team. He tries to keep wickets to pretend he contributes to the team in another way, when the real reason is he's a crappy fielder and doesn't want to be in the outfield. This keeps other talented players out of the team as well as he himself becomes a weight for the others to carry. 
Regarding Matthews, he should be ready in time for the upcoming IPL season, so can't risk playing for his national team. Both Matthews and Chandimal are 2 over-rated players in my mind.

Oh yeah... Great news for sri lanka.. As long as matthews is injury sri lanka will be good team.. Time to give chance for tharanga as captain.. In test n as opener.. Tharanga performed well as captain.. We only need matthews as batsmen only..

Big blow for SL., but its also eciting to see what playaers can fill his role. I hope at least one of our openers are gone and replaced with someone new. Not sure whether Chandimal will play because, sanath said he needs to go back to club cricket. thats not really something you would say if he was coming back into the team straightaway. Would like to see Dickwella play and also Samarawickrama come in who was being doing really well recently. He got promoted to the A team for the first time and is currently at 120 not out against the England Lions.

As a BD fan, happy bc this improves our chances slightly bc he's such a key and good player. As a cricket fan, hope he gets back to playing as soon as possible.

        We use cookies to help make this website better, to improve our services and for advertising purposes. You can learn more about our use of cookies and change your browser settings in order to avoid cookies by clicking 
T20 run fests are great fun, but nothing quite beats a nail-biter, specially when a team has something at stake. This was the format at its raw, cruel best, where one swing of the blade meant wildly fluctuating fortunes for Pakistan cricket's two biggest powerhouses. Two swings of the blade, actually. Karachi Kings' , who hadn't fired in the tournament until today, struck two sixes off the last two balls of the match to ensure his side's hopes of making it to the playoffs were not yet extinguished. In doing so, he left Lahore Qalandars on the verge of first-round elimination again.

The run chase of 156 had looked comfortable at the start for Karachi. Babar Azam paired up first with Mahela Jayawardene - who replaced Chris Gayle in the starting XI - and then with Kumar Sangakarra to ensure they were in control of the required rate, and had wickets in hand. But accurate bowling from Lahore's spin pair of Sunil Narine and Yasir Shah starved Karachi of boundaries, and as the asking rate began to rise, so did the tension. Sangakarra's men lost their heads in the middle briefly, with Ravi Bopara and Shoaib Malik running themselves out in a space of a few overs. Pollard and Imad Wasim then came together in a partnership that always seemed like they had slightly too much to do, never more so than when they needed 10 to win off the last two balls. Pollard was up to the task and took 12 runs. 

Lahore will rue their own batting performance - an innings that never quite managed to gain momentum, for which the batsmen had only themselves to blame. Poor shot selection at inopportune times kept pegging them back, with Brendon McCullum, Umar Akmal and Grant Elliott falling in similar fashion, slicing the spinners up in the air. Shoaib Malik deserved credit for his 2 for 21, which helped ensure Lahore's total was just within reach. 

Lahore had a decent platform of 68 for 2 at the end of their first nine overs, with McCullum appearing to ease himself back into form. Then, between the 10th and 15th overs, the innings completely unravelled as Lahore lost four wickets for 29 runs in 28 balls. Their most threatening players were back in the pavilion just when the innings should have begun to take off. It wasn't down to outstanding bowling, either; with the exception of Shoaib Malik, no Karachi bowler really bowled out of their skins. Instead, they waited for Lahore to make mistakes and the batsmen did just that. 

Karachi had made it hard for themselves by losing five wickets for 103 by the end of the 15th over, three of them to run-outs. With the asking rate hovering over twelve for the last four overs, it increasingly appeared that the only thing standing between Karachi and elimination was the burly figure of Keiron Pollard. He hit at least one boundary in each of the last four overs, ensuring that even though the required rate was steep, it did not become insurmountable. Imad played a diligent hand, ensuring Pollard got as much of the strike as possible. The partnership kept Karachi in the game even when 10 required off the last two balls. The hapless Aamer Yamin slightly missed his yorker in both deliveries on both of them. 

If it wasn't for Pollard's late show, this game would likely have been remembered for McCullum's tactics in the field. He was unusual, at times downright funky, with his bowling selections. Fakhar Zaman was handed the ball for the 13th over with Babar Azam in good touch, and three balls later, the batsman holed out on the boundary. Two overs later, McCullum brought himself on, presumably for no other reason except to have someone to turn the ball away from the left-handed Imad. That over went for 13, and half an hour later, McCullum suddenly didn't look quite so clever. 

Karachi pipped Lahore to fourth place, and, unless they lose by a massive margin to Islamabad United tomorrow, they will go through to the playoffs. Lahore, who have dropped down to fifth, are staring at the likelihood of first-round elimination for the second successive season.

Bopara should be dropped he cant even bat and has hardly bowled and when he has bowled he has been smashed and that is where karachi lacks i would add amad alam and drop shenwari for mclaren

Lahore bowling with 8 bowlers is a joke. It's like playing street cricket in a world class league match.

Amazing hitting by Pollard. Great entertainment. Thanks for reppin my city and saving the sinking ship!

Poor selection of fast bowlers in Lahore Qalender's team . All fast bowlers are mediocre , Hats off to Aqib Javid and company , Feeling pitty for  poor Rana sab Owner of Lahore Qalendar  .

Very entertaining.. PSL is rocking. I would like too sixth team next time so that more local gets a chance. Lahore didn't even select good local talent.

Can't believe guys like Hafeez is still getting chances.. the most useless cricketer I have ever seen.

Although i am not following PSL, however, the net run rate margin is not that big. 
If Khi loose by 15 runs or IU win within 18 overs, KK net rr will fall below LQ
So basically just a small margin of lost can cost KK the top 4 position. 
Dear Writer - pls recalculate your workings
Thanks
Atifansari1974@gmail.com

Bopara should be dropped he cant even bat and has hardly bowled and when he has bowled he has been smashed and that is where karachi lacks i would add amad alam and drop shenwari for mclaren

Lahore bowling with 8 bowlers is a joke. It's like playing street cricket in a world class league match.

Amazing hitting by Pollard. Great entertainment. Thanks for reppin my city and saving the sinking ship!

Poor selection of fast bowlers in Lahore Qalender's team . All fast bowlers are mediocre , Hats off to Aqib Javid and company , Feeling pitty for  poor Rana sab Owner of Lahore Qalendar  .

Very entertaining.. PSL is rocking. I would like too sixth team next time so that more local gets a chance. Lahore didn't even select good local talent.

Can't believe guys like Hafeez is still getting chances.. the most useless cricketer I have ever seen.

Although i am not following PSL, however, the net run rate margin is not that big. 
If Khi loose by 15 runs or IU win within 18 overs, KK net rr will fall below LQ
So basically just a small margin of lost can cost KK the top 4 position. 
Dear Writer - pls recalculate your workings
Thanks
Atifansari1974@gmail.com

U19 allrounder Hasan mohsin should be given a chance in next match in place of either usman khan or sohail khan  .

U19 allrounder Hasan mohsin should be given a chance in next match in place of either usman khan or sohail khan  .

Although i am not following PSL, however, the net run rate margin is not that big. 
If Khi loose by 15 runs or IU win within 18 overs, KK net rr will fall below LQ
So basically just a small margin of lost can cost KK the top 4 position. 
Dear Writer - pls recalculate your workings
Thanks
Atifansari1974@gmail.com

Can't believe guys like Hafeez is still getting chances.. the most useless cricketer I have ever seen.

        We use cookies to help make this website better, to improve our services and for advertising purposes. You can learn more about our use of cookies and change your browser settings in order to avoid cookies by clicking  the platform to win a game for his side once more. In a contest between two teams where it looked like neither wanted to win at times, Afridi scored a 23-ball 45 to give Peshawar Zalmi a last-over, two-wicket win over first-place Quetta Gladiators. 

The chase of 129 appeared comfortable for Peshawar near the halfway mark, whatever demons the pitch contained. But it was the demons in the mind that really frightened Darren Sammy's men, and, as has been the theme of the competition over the last few days, Peshawar found a way to complicate a straightforward chase. Five wickets were lost for two runs over 12 balls as Quetta looked like they were about to do to Peshawar what Peshawar had done to Lahore on Friday. 

Then Afridi - yes, Afridi! - restored some sanity to proceedings in a crucial 37-run partnership with Mohammad Hafeez, before taking charge of the run chase. He threatened to run out of partners, and overs, but finished the match with two fours off the first two balls of the 20th.

Peshawar had earlier kept the opposition down to 128 by exploiting the prodigious turn the surface provided, putting Quetta on the back foot immediately when  dismissed both openers in the second over. Rilee Rossouw and Kevin Pietersen then consolidated with a mature 86-run partnership, but superb death bowling by  and Hasan Ali meant Peshawar could never build on the good work earlier, and only 16 came off the last four overs as Quetta limped to the end of the innings to a total they couldn't quite defend.

When a collapse of the magnitude that struck Peshawar today happens, it's not unusual for a side to crumble altogether. So when 50 for 1 became 52 for 6, it was imperative for Peshawar to slow things down and take the sting out of the game so heads could be cleared and brains unscrambled. 

Hafeez and Afridi played a vital role for the 6.3 overs they were together. They might have added only 37 runs in that period, but in a small chase, the asking rate was never going to be as much of a problem as the wickets in hand. When Hafeez finally nicked  - who in his own right was also sensational - to Sarfraz Ahmed, the asking rate was still under ten. With Afridi there, the game was on.

That it was a good pitch for the spinners was fairly obvious, but what most caught the eye were the bowling efforts of Wahab and Hasan, whose combined figures of 8-0-39-4 were testament to their excellence. Hasan was impressive at both top and tail of the innings, varying his pace intelligently and nailing the yorker almost on command, in addition to taking three catches. Wahab's most impressive attribute was his raw pace and bounce in the death overs, which was simply too good for Peshawar's middle order as they began to lose wickets in a heap. A perhaps unintentional contribution from Wahab came in the dismissal of Umar Gul, who went off rubbing his hand and didn't bowl an over during Peshawar's innings. 

In a game of small margins such as this one, Zulfiqar Babar will look back at his first over and think he might have done better. Defending 128, Quetta would have wanted a good start but Zulfiqar, mildly put, failed to provide them that. The first four balls of the innings all went for wides. One even escaped Sarfraz and cost Quetta a couple of extra runs, and it wasn't until the fifth ball went down that a legitimate delivery had been bowled. The over included one more wide after that, and despite only four runs coming off the bat, Peshawar had eleven on the board at the end of their first over. It might not have been decisive, but it certainly wasn't helpful.

Peshawar take Quetta's place at the top of the table with this win, with the Gladiators slipping to second. Both sides are on nine points, but Sammy's side has a superior net run rate.

Great game this, great emotions, lala doing it again in style. So far the number of close games this PSL has been just amazing. Hope the knockouts are just as good. Great going PSL.

Great game this, great emotions, lala doing it again in style. So far the number of close games this PSL has been just amazing. Hope the knockouts are just as good. Great going PSL.

Great game this, great emotions, lala doing it again in style. So far the number of close games this PSL has been just amazing. Hope the knockouts are just as good. Great going PSL.

        We use cookies to help make this website better, to improve our services and for advertising purposes. You can learn more about our use of cookies and change your browser settings in order to avoid cookies by clicking 
The coach Mike Hesson did not confirm whether Latham would retain a spot as a batsman, but the hints were that he could be dropped after a run of  including three ducks. Dean Brownlie, who was Guptill's replacement, has retained his place in the squad which is just for the Hamilton match.

"We talked at the start of the series about giving both keepers an opportunity. Tom has had the first three, so Luke is likely to have an opportunity there," Hesson said. "We are delighted to have Martin back and that allows us to do that a lot easier."

Hesson indicated that a decision over Latham would not purely be taken with the thought of giving him a short break before the Test series even though he is a key plank of that top order.
Kane Williamson (capt), Trent Boult, Neil Broom, Dean Brownlie, Lockie Ferguson, Colin de Grandhomme, Martin Guptill, Tom Latham, James Neesham, JeetanPatel, Luke Ronchi, Mitchell Santner, Ish Sodhi, Tim Southee, Ross Taylor
"I don't think anything is more important than anything else, the ODI series is huge for us," he said in reference to whether the Tests were a priority. "Tom has struggled the last little while, he came off a great series in India, and has come home and hasn't quite reached those heights yet."

Guptill has recovered from his dual hamstring injuries and his is a timely return after New Zealand were skittled for 112 in Wellington. Hesson called the performance "out of the box" and said the team had to readjust quickly to stay in the series.

Guptill averages 42.52 from 141 ODIs and though he hasn't batted in the middle for almost a month, he has been able to net regularly during his recovery.

"He's been batting all the way through, it was more about strength in the hamstring when running at top speed," Hesson said. "Sure, you haven't played in the middle so it will be challenging but he's a world-class player and pleased to have him back."

A return for Ronchi will mean juggling elsewhere with him needing to fit into the middle order which could make Neil Broom vulnerable unless New Zealand ditch one of their allrounders.
 has also been added to the squad after the considerable assistance that was on offer in the opening game of the series. Kane Williamson expects a different surface this time, with better weather in the build-up but Patel, who played his first ODI in seven years against Bangladesh in Nelson on New Years Eve, provides a specialist bowler who can spin the ball away from the left handers.

However, it could be that Williamson is entrusted with a greater bowler role in the fourth ODI. "With Kane bowling, depending on conditions, he's very much a sixth option and Hamilton is probably those conditions," Hesson said. "Whether we go with the two allrounders, or slot Luke in a little higher we have options."

Hesson termed the challenge of winning back-to-back games against the world's No. 1 team "exciting, really exciting" as they look to maintain an unbeaten home record in ODI series which dates back 
I don't understand, why not just open with Broom? I've noticed he bats there in domestic cricket so why not try him there in internationals if that's where he's had his success? Nothing against Brownlie but he was the second pick after Broom so ideally he should be the preference until he loses form or can't meet expectations. As for Latham it seems Hesson is impatient in putting together a squad. A few bad matches for anyone and they'll be dropped but then brought back in as soon as others fail. Sorry but unless Williamson and Taylor rack on the centuries and Boult takes 5fors they won't do too well in the CT2017.

You need an opener and a keeper hesson. The answer to your problems are staring you in the face but you're not brave enough to trust a 20 year old, you'd rather back someone who has let you down time and time again, I just don't get it.and if Patel plays ahead of sodhi I'll be even more perplexed, just a hint, worker is a pretty handy spinner too.

Neesham & Grandhomme are both doing extremely well, but I think there's only room for one. Very tough call. Broom strengthens that middle order a lot & I think two specialist spinners are needed here.  1-Guptill 2-Brownlie 3-Kane 4-Roscoe 5-Broom 6-Ronchi 7-Neesham/Grandhomme 8-Santner 9-Southee 10-Boult 11-Sodhi.

Why pick Patel when you have Sodhi in the side and he is doing really well in this series. Are you going to play 3 spinners. As far as Ronchi is concerned, he is struggling more than most and wont do any better, 1Guptil,2Brownlie, 3Williamson, 4Taylor, 5Neesham,  6de Granshomme,  7Latham, 8Santner,  9Sodni,  10Southee, 11Boult.

This is great newa for NZ! Guptill is an excellent ODI batsman but an average test batsman... Latham is a fine test batsman but not a great ODI batsman.... Let them do what they do best!

Gup can win a match on his own if he bats deep. Let's hope he can for the sake of the series. I think I can hear the gnashing of kiwi teeth at the mention of ronchi from over here in Brisbane. I hope ronchi plays, if only for Latham's sake.  A restfor santner might not be the worst idea, although that seems unlikely from Hesson's comments.

They still haven't realised that Latham's failures are a direct result of his having to keep, have they?

1) Guptill 2) Brownlie 3) Kane 4) Ross 5) Neesham 6) CDG 7) Luke Ronchi 8) Mitchy 9) Jeetan/Sohdi 10) Lockie 11) Boult. Lockie gets the new ball.
Would be unorthodox but very interesting. If Jeetan is selected ahead of Sodhi, it will send a clear messsage to Sodhi that he will not a play a role in the CT most likely which will honestly be a bummer. Maybe give Santner a rest and play the other two tweakers. Playing 3 frontline spinners would be a treat to watch though. If Lockie can improve his accuracy, he can be our Kagiso Rabada. I dont think Southee deserves the new ball but knowing the selectors, hell still get the new ball.

I don't understand, why not just open with Broom? I've noticed he bats there in domestic cricket so why not try him there in internationals if that's where he's had his success? Nothing against Brownlie but he was the second pick after Broom so ideally he should be the preference until he loses form or can't meet expectations. As for Latham it seems Hesson is impatient in putting together a squad. A few bad matches for anyone and they'll be dropped but then brought back in as soon as others fail. Sorry but unless Williamson and Taylor rack on the centuries and Boult takes 5fors they won't do too well in the CT2017.

You need an opener and a keeper hesson. The answer to your problems are staring you in the face but you're not brave enough to trust a 20 year old, you'd rather back someone who has let you down time and time again, I just don't get it.and if Patel plays ahead of sodhi I'll be even more perplexed, just a hint, worker is a pretty handy spinner too.

Neesham & Grandhomme are both doing extremely well, but I think there's only room for one. Very tough call. Broom strengthens that middle order a lot & I think two specialist spinners are needed here.  1-Guptill 2-Brownlie 3-Kane 4-Roscoe 5-Broom 6-Ronchi 7-Neesham/Grandhomme 8-Santner 9-Southee 10-Boult 11-Sodhi.

Why pick Patel when you have Sodhi in the side and he is doing really well in this series. Are you going to play 3 spinners. As far as Ronchi is concerned, he is struggling more than most and wont do any better, 1Guptil,2Brownlie, 3Williamson, 4Taylor, 5Neesham,  6de Granshomme,  7Latham, 8Santner,  9Sodni,  10Southee, 11Boult.

This is great newa for NZ! Guptill is an excellent ODI batsman but an average test batsman... Latham is a fine test batsman but not a great ODI batsman.... Let them do what they do best!

Gup can win a match on his own if he bats deep. Let's hope he can for the sake of the series. I think I can hear the gnashing of kiwi teeth at the mention of ronchi from over here in Brisbane. I hope ronchi plays, if only for Latham's sake.  A restfor santner might not be the worst idea, although that seems unlikely from Hesson's comments.

They still haven't realised that Latham's failures are a direct result of his having to keep, have they?

1) Guptill 2) Brownlie 3) Kane 4) Ross 5) Neesham 6) CDG 7) Luke Ronchi 8) Mitchy 9) Jeetan/Sohdi 10) Lockie 11) Boult. Lockie gets the new ball.
Would be unorthodox but very interesting. If Jeetan is selected ahead of Sodhi, it will send a clear messsage to Sodhi that he will not a play a role in the CT most likely which will honestly be a bummer. Maybe give Santner a rest and play the other two tweakers. Playing 3 frontline spinners would be a treat to watch though. If Lockie can improve his accuracy, he can be our Kagiso Rabada. I dont think Southee deserves the new ball but knowing the selectors, hell still get the new ball.

1) Guptill 2) Brownlie 3) Kane 4) Ross 5) Neesham 6) CDG 7) Luke Ronchi 8) Mitchy 9) Jeetan/Sohdi 10) Lockie 11) Boult. Lockie gets the new ball.
Would be unorthodox but very interesting. If Jeetan is selected ahead of Sodhi, it will send a clear messsage to Sodhi that he will not a play a role in the CT most likely which will honestly be a bummer. Maybe give Santner a rest and play the other two tweakers. Playing 3 frontline spinners would be a treat to watch though. If Lockie can improve his accuracy, he can be our Kagiso Rabada. I dont think Southee deserves the new ball but knowing the selectors, hell still get the new ball.

They still haven't realised that Latham's failures are a direct result of his having to keep, have they?

Gup can win a match on his own if he bats deep. Let's hope he can for the sake of the series. I think I can hear the gnashing of kiwi teeth at the mention of ronchi from over here in Brisbane. I hope ronchi plays, if only for Latham's sake.  A restfor santner might not be the worst idea, although that seems unlikely from Hesson's comments.

This is great newa for NZ! Guptill is an excellent ODI batsman but an average test batsman... Latham is a fine test batsman but not a great ODI batsman.... Let them do what they do best!

Why pick Patel when you have Sodhi in the side and he is doing really well in this series. Are you going to play 3 spinners. As far as Ronchi is concerned, he is struggling more than most and wont do any better, 1Guptil,2Brownlie, 3Williamson, 4Taylor, 5Neesham,  6de Granshomme,  7Latham, 8Santner,  9Sodni,  10Southee, 11Boult.

Neesham & Grandhomme are both doing extremely well, but I think there's only room for one. Very tough call. Broom strengthens that middle order a lot & I think two specialist spinners are needed here.  1-Guptill 2-Brownlie 3-Kane 4-Roscoe 5-Broom 6-Ronchi 7-Neesham/Grandhomme 8-Santner 9-Southee 10-Boult 11-Sodhi.

You need an opener and a keeper hesson. The answer to your problems are staring you in the face but you're not brave enough to trust a 20 year old, you'd rather back someone who has let you down time and time again, I just don't get it.and if Patel plays ahead of sodhi I'll be even more perplexed, just a hint, worker is a pretty handy spinner too.

I don't understand, why not just open with Broom? I've noticed he bats there in domestic cricket so why not try him there in internationals if that's where he's had his success? Nothing against Brownlie but he was the second pick after Broom so ideally he should be the preference until he loses form or can't meet expectations. As for Latham it seems Hesson is impatient in putting together a squad. A few bad matches for anyone and they'll be dropped but then brought back in as soon as others fail. Sorry but unless Williamson and Taylor rack on the centuries and Boult takes 5fors they won't do too well in the CT2017.

        We use cookies to help make this website better, to improve our services and for advertising purposes. You can learn more about our use of cookies and change your browser settings in order to avoid cookies by clicking 