espn
Russell Westbrook picks up his 28th triple-double of the season with 17 points, 18 rebounds and 17 assists in Oklahoma City's 110-93 win over Los Angeles. (0:56)OKLAHOMA CITY -- There he sat on the aisle, halfway up Section 114, maybe 15 rows directly behind the From his perch next to Lakers executives Joey and Jesse Buss, Magic Johnson munched on popcorn Friday and surveyed his young, rebuilding squad play its first game since he ascended from a nebulous advisory position to president of basketball operations in a dramatic in-house bloodletting earlier this week that shook the franchise's foundation and the NBA landscape.Everybody has to look over their shoulders once again. Its like coming to a new team. You try to impress the GMs and the guys in the front office with your play and off the court, the way you handle yourself. Its just all different.Midway through the second quarter, Johnson joined the in-game broadcast on Spectrum SportsNet, and after preaching patience with repairing a team that has the NBAs third-worst record and has missed the playoffs for three consecutive seasons, he headed toward a nearby tunnel.But star power of his caliber doesnt visit Oklahoma on just any day, so nearby fans zeroed in with smartphones and snapped away, screaming, Magic! He offered his classic smile in return.Theres a reason hes as successful as he is, because he has a way with people, Lakers coach Luke Walton said before his team fell to 19-40 on the season.Johnson oozes charisma, not to mention the legendary clout that comes with being one of the most exciting athletes in history -- winning five championships, achieving Basketball Hall of Fame status and putting together one of the most successful nonsports rsums of any player ever.But the task ahead of him is staggering -- a yearslong venture, at least -- and his lack of front-office experience justifiably gives many pause as to whether he is fully equipped to make the Lakers great again, no matter his other credentials or what he tweets or boasts during national media tours.Still, Johnson is the first to admit that he is up against a monumental feat, that there will need to be baby steps before giant leaps. On Thursday night, Johnson took several members of the teams coaching staff and front office to dinner at Mahogany Prime Steakhouse, a few blocks from their downtown Oklahoma City hotel, to lay out his vision and discuss ideas.Walton said the Lakers would love to have Johnson around as much as possible, and so far, Johnson has attended practices and even worked with players on individual moves. But Johnson likely wont attend many road games beyond Friday, which was a statement appearance, given the teams massive shakeup.He did tell the players that the door to his office is always open, and Russell said he and his teammates are expected to have one-on-one sessions with Johnson over the next few days.But from now until their regular-season finale April 12, the Lakers goal is twofold, yet should unfold without much effort: to develop their young players and to lose.As for losing, the Lakers wont have to try much, because they simply arent talented or experienced enough to even be competitive most nights, especially in the Western Conference. In other words, no "tanking" is necessary. But all those defeats will come in handy during the NBA draft lottery on May 16, as the Lakers are praying theyll be able to keep a top-three protected first-round draft pick.The outcome of that crucial draft lottery will help shape the Lakers immediate future, though their next 23 games are key for their young core to gain valuable experience and chemistry and to develop what Johnson hopes, as he said on Friday's broadcast, is an identity.During that time, it will also be key for Johnson to gain more understanding of the NBAs collective bargaining agreement, as well as the ins and outs of running a modern NBA front office.Right now, the Lakers will appreciate every positive step forward, no matter how small, as they know full well it will take many such steps -- along with dramatic changes -- for them to emerge from the lowest era in franchise history.LONDON -- Three quick thoughts from Chelsea's 3-1 Premier League win over Swansea at Stamford Bridge on Saturday.As Chelsea have surged clear of a pack of faltering rivals at the top of the Premier League and the likes of Pep Guardiola, Jose Mourinho and Arsene Wenger have taken turns to proclaim them champions-in-waiting, the zeal of Antonio Conte's pleas for concentration has increased.On this evidence, his players are listening. Despite being caused considerable discomfort by a resurgent Swansea City side at Stamford Bridge, Chelsea continue to stave off the twin vices of anxiety and complacency that can plague so many teams that lead from the front.The omnipresent N'Golo Kante ensured that Swansea barely escaped their own half in the early moments and when Cesc Fabregas broke the deadlock on 19 minutes, darting into the penalty area to control Pedro Rodriguez's pass and poke the ball into the far corner, a 12th home win of the season felt inevitable.Fernando Llorente's header on the stroke of halftime was the kind of sucker-punch Chelsea have more regularly doled out to opponents since September, but the sense of deflation around Stamford Bridge was immediately remedied by the scheduled appearance of Frank Lampard on the pitch at the interval.Swansea showed greater ambition after halftime and, for a spell, roars of belief were displaced by groans of exasperation around the stands as the visitors gained a foothold. As so often in recent weeks, however, Pedro was the man to settle the nerves and switch the momentum.Receiving a pass from Fabregas, the winger turned infield and hit a curling, bouncing shot from 25 yards that fooled Lukasz Fabianski and nestled in the far corner. Pedro now has 11 goals in 19 matches since derailing Mourinho's game plan inside 30 seconds on this ground in October, many of them crucial.Conte, in a pragmatic frame of mind, quickly replaced Pedro with Nemanja Matic but Chelsea didn't stop attacking and, as legs tired and spaces opened, Eden Hazard crossed for Diego Costa to hammer in his 16th Premier League goal of the season.Few teams have played as well at Stamford Bridge this season as Swansea, but Chelsea continue to dispatch capable Premier League opponents convincingly even when below their best. The gap is 11 points now and the chasing pack have no cause for optimism.On the day when Stamford Bridge welcomed back Lampard, it was Fabregas who delivered the most fitting tribute. For much of the afternoon the Spaniard appeared to be channeling the spirit of the greatest goalscoring midfielder of his generation, in addition to displaying his more trademark gifts.The Spaniard's first late surge into the penalty area was his most effective but his attacking ambition tormented the Swansea defence throughout. Soon after his bouncing shot was tipped wide by Fabianski, while after halftime only the crossbar denied him.Conte's benching of Fabregas for Kante and Matic this season has understandably prompted speculation over the former Arsenal captain's future, and when he spoke of his frustration at the rise of power over talent in modern football recently, his words seemed those of a man aware that the game might be leaving him behind.But while Chelsea's midfield might be more physically imposing without Fabregas, it is undeniably still more dangerous with him. His ability to control the tempo and switch the point of attack gives Conte's team more possibilities, while his set-piece deliveries -- uncharacteristically poor on Saturday -- provide another, less heralded weapon.Fabregas' 300th Premier League appearance was his 671st for club and country at the age of 28; for context, Didier Drogba was still 49 games short of that mark when he left Chelsea as a 32-year-old in the summer of 2012.Fabregas' consistency is remarkable and, as he proves every time Conte gives him an opportunity, he is still a difference-maker of the highest quality.When Paul Clement was appointed Swansea manager at the beginning of January, reservations about his ability to succeed in the Premier League were compounded by a nightmarish run of fixtures that pitted them against Arsenal, Liverpool, Manchester City and Chelsea within the space of seven games.Swansea had taken 13 points prior to visiting Stamford Bridge and, until Pedro beat Fabianski, looked good value to repeat the draw they earned against Chelsea at the Liberty Stadium in September -- and might have got more had Cesar Azpilicueta been penalised for a handball in the penalty area.Clement stated his desire to reinstate "the Swansea way" of playing on his appointment, but his biggest achievement so far has been organising what was one of the most chaotic and leaky defences in the Premier League until the turn of the year.Chelsea did not struggle for chances in either half at Stamford Bridge, but a combination of poor finishing and dogged last-ditch defending kept Swansea in the match, while Llorente further underlined why Conte was interested in signing him in January.Despite their defeat, Swansea sit three points above the relegation zone, and their next four matches are against Burnley, Hull City, Bournemouth and Middlesbrough. Even if Leicester City's underachieving players rediscover some form now Claudio Ranieri is gone, Clement's team have the belief and momentum to be confident that it won't be at the expense of them.Your Facebook name, photo & other personal information you make public on Facebook will appear with your comment, and may be used on ESPN's media platforms. . Your Facebook name, photo & other personal information you make public on Facebook will appear with your comment, and may be used on ESPN's media platforms. SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -- Bud Black knows all about the demoralizing impact of hostile atmospheric conditions on baseball players. When he arrived in San Diego to manage the Padres in 2007, the outfield fences were deeper, and hitters from  had to live with the reality that some well-struck fly balls were going to die at the warning track amid the damp and heavy coastal air.Follow all the action and news from the Cactus and Grapefruit leagues in Arizona and Florida, respectively.A decade later, Black isn't about to be cowed by the pitcher-related fatalism that's come to define Coors Field. He has 5,280 reasons to expect glitches in his first year as the "When I got to San Diego, it was hard to hit and easier to pitch, statistically,'' Black said. "The message there was, 'Hit the ball on the nose. Get your hits. Let's play a good solid game.' Here it's the other way. It's, 'Make good pitches. Don't walk anybody. Be fundamentally sound and let's go beat the other team.' For me it's sort of the opposite of what I dealt with before, which is exciting.''In their first 24 seasons, the Rockies tried Don Baylor, Jim Leyland, Buddy Bell, Clint Hurdle, Jim Tracy and Walt Weiss in the manager's seat and ranked last or next to last in the National League in ERA 18 times. Now they'll see if a crafty left-hander can solve the Coors Field Rubik's Cube. Black, who won 121 games over 15 big league seasons on the mound, joins Boston's John Farrell and Cincinnati's  as the third member of the pitching fraternity who will be making out lineup cards for an MLB club in 2017.Hiring a respected pitching mind and giving him the raw materials to win games are two different things, and the Rockies enter the new season with perhaps their brightest outlook since 2007-2009, when , who signed for $70 million to play first base. They have also invested the time and resources to assemble a pitching staff that they hope will give the As anyone acquainted with Rockies' history can attest, pitching is the emotional anchor around the franchise's collective neck. So the Rockies have tried everything through the years. They signed big-ticket free agents () and invested money in high draft picks who failed to pan out. They focused on sinkerballers for a while, avoided curveballers, and got innovative in 2012 when they tried a four-man rotation and limited each starter to 75 innings. They even became a home for wayward geezers: In April 2012, 49-year-old General manager Jeff Bridich, who has been with the organization for 13 seasons and assumed his current role in 2014, laughed when asked if he's learned any lessons through the years that might have allowed him to solve the Coors Field mystery.A cursory check of Colorado's pitching history shows that success can be fleeting. The best Rockies starters --  -- enjoyed flurries of success but flamed out relatively quickly because of injuries or ineffectiveness.Against that daunting backdrop, Black and Bridich agree that an aggressive mindset is vital in slaying the Coors Field monster."On top of talent, we need mentally tough SOBs,'' Black said. "We have to find and draft guys who are resilient, who'll bounce back from a tough outing where it might get chaotic in Coors and their ERA takes a hit. It might get a little bit unsightly when it pops up on the scoreboard or on TV. We have to have guys who will overlook that individual line -- who truly don't care about that.''The early signs for the young starters are encouraging. Gray, Bettis and Anderson all logged better numbers at home than on the road last year, and the Rockies posted a 4.70 team ERA after the All-Star break compared to a 5.08 mark before it. And if it's mental toughness Black desires, the kids have overcome enough obstacles to suggest they'll stick with it.Three of Colorado's top four starting pitchers logged better numbers at Coors Field than on the road in 2016.Chatwood has survived two Tommy John surgeries. Anderson, a first-round pick out of the University of Oregon in 2011, missed the entire 2015 season with a stress fracture in his left elbow and was 26 when he made his big league debut last summer. And now Bettis is going through an ordeal that would test anyone; he was diagnosed with testicular cancer in November and had one of his testicles surgically removed. This week, Bettis told reporters that his latest blood work has revealed he's cancer-free.. While Butler failed to pan out in Denver and moved on to the Cubs organization in a recent trade, Gray went 10-10 with a 4.61 ERA in 2016, struck out 16 Padres in a shutout in September, and assumed the look of a workhorse. He also arrived at spring training looking a little like  -- with long, flowing blond hair that spilled below his shoulders. Gray is planning to get his hair cut soon and donate it to a charity called Locks of Love, which provides hairpieces for disadvantaged children suffering hair loss because of medical conditions."I'm ready for it to be gone,'' Gray said. "I didn't realize it was so much work until I actually had it.''Amid the rigors of life at Coors Field, Gray and Bettis talk about the importance of "changing eye levels'' and becoming more visually aware. When throwing a breaking ball in Denver, Rockies pitchers have to train their eyes on a lower spot than they would on the road to ensure that the ball arrives at the same place. While that sounds simple enough, it takes discipline to do it pitch after pitch."We need mentally tough SOBs. We have to find and draft guys who are resilient, who'll bounce back from a tough outing where it might get chaotic in Coors and their ERA takes a hit. It might get a little bit unsightly when it pops up on the scoreboard or on TV.""That's something we learned in the second half,'' Bettis said. "Pitches move a little different, and you have to make those adjustments faster than three innings into a game. If you don't, you'll find yourself out of a game real fast.''Black and Padres pitching coach Darren Balsley earned raves for turning around pitchers at Petco Park. In Denver, Black will continue to rely on a collaborative effort with pitching coach Steve Foster, who stresses the mental side of the game, and bullpen coach Rather than dance around the topic of Coors Field and its reputation as a self-esteem killer for pitchers, the Rockies are ready to stare down their organizational demons from a distance of 60 feet, six inches."It's no longer the elephant in the room,'' Bridich said. "We don't dwell on it, but we address it openly -- this misnomer that success can't be had at altitude from a pitcher's perspective. We're 25 years old now as an organization, and there are all different types of pitchers who've had success. A lot of it has to do with mental makeup and the belief guys have in themselves and each other. And some of it is about weeding out the noise.''When things get too loud, chaotic or just plain crazy at Coors this summer, Colorado's pitchers can count on Bud Black's calming voice gently guiding them back to earth. He's ready to bring the perspective and the encouragement. All they have to do is make the pitches.Colorado high school basketball player Francesca Belibi becomes the state's first girls' basketball player to dunk in a postseason game., a 6-foot-1 sophomore at Regis Jesuit in Aurora, Colorado, became the state's first girls' basketball player to dunk in a postseason game.According to the Aurora Sentinel, Belibi's first-quarter dunk accounted for two of her game-high 21 points in Regis Jesuit's 64-35 win over Fort Collins. The win put Regis Jesuit (18-6) into the Sweet 16 of the Class 5A girls' state basketball tournament.Belibi, whose parents were born in Cameroon, walked into a Regis Jesuit open gym on Sept. 20, 2015, and told coaches she thought she could play.She made her way into the team's starting lineup as a freshman last February and has become one of the most exciting prospects in the country.The league firecracker opens up about the trades emotional aftermath and his plans to move forward with the New Orleans PelicanseMarcus Cousins already appeared comfortable as he sat in the New Orleans Pelicans locker room right . The citys southern hospitality already reminds Cousins of his hometown of Mobile, Alabama. Davis, the Pelicans and their fans have welcomed him with open arms, too. And despite a blowout 129-99 debut loss to the 3-point-happy Houston Rockets, Cousins says he is all in with the Pelicans and confident after more practice and time that they will be a playoff team. to the Pelicans a little easier to deal with. While Cousins still loves Sacramento and Kings fans, the big man whos big on trust will have a hard time ever getting on the same page with Kings owner Vivek Ranadive and general manager Vlade Divac, who he now views as cowards. in principle to trade the three-time NBA All-Star and forward Omri Casspi to the Pelicans for guards Buddy Hield, Tyreke Evans and Langston Galloway, and a first- and second-round draft pick. Cousins spoke with The Undefeated after his Pelicans debut, reflecting on his emotional and hurtful It was because of my [Kings assistant] equipment manager [Miguel Lopez], who has been there since my rookie season. He was emotional right away. He just put me in a place. I havent cried in a long time. It just broke me down. It hit me like, This s is really happening. It was something that I never expected to happen. I was also told [a trade] wouldnt happen, so It just hit. I just walked in and people started cheering. Something overcame me and I just broke down.A week before the trade. The sick part about it is that Vlade came in my house with my agent [Jarinn Akana]. We sat in my theater and just talked. That was maybe three weeks ago. We sat there and [he] told me what moves he wanted to make. All of that. I just didnt understand.I got a text from the owner right before I went to All-Star. He was asking me about a player, how I felt about him and making a move. The owner! When it happened, I was just in shock. I didnt understand.I heard the rumors before the game. But Ive heard rumors the last four years about me being traded. It was like, Whatever. When they sat me down with the media after the game, my PR guy at the time [Chris Clark] said, There is serious talk about you possibly being moved.Like a man. Like a professional. The more those guys talk, the more things come out. Its just crazy. This aint something that happened in a few days. It has been discussed with more than one team. I just dont understand.It was something instilled in me. I am going to take it back to my AAU days. My first coach, Danny [Pritchett], I love him to this day. He was the first coach to pump me up to play basketball. Nobody wanted me. Nobody cared to put me on a team. Danny worked with me day and night. My freshman year in high school, I became a hell of a basketball player. We were just some low-budget AAU team. We were selling donuts and doing car washes to make money just to make it to the tournament.All the big AAUs, Alabama Challenge, they started sending gifts and doing whatever to try to reel me in. My mom said, Those people didnt care about you, and all of a sudden they are going to try to reel you in. Thats not how you operate. You go with who cared about you from the jump. Even then, it wasnt easy. I didnt get the exposure because I wasnt with the big team with Nike or Adidas. But I just stuck with it, and things gradually worked with me into my favor.In high school, the same thing. Maybe when I was in college [at Kentucky], at my biggest stage, is when I got all the exposure. But to me, Ive always gotten it the hard way. It never came easy for me. Im kind of used to it. No matter what, Ive always found a way to find some success. And when I was in that situation with [the Kings], I felt it was the exact same thing. My time will come when its my time. Those are guys that took a chance on me. Im sticking to it. Im going to make it work. That wasnt the case.Its bigger than basketball. Its bigger than the Kings organization. Its bigger than that. The relationships I built out there, Im more hurt by that. Being away from those relationships and the community, Im more hurt by that because of the dishonesty and all that s with the organization.Nah. For what? It was a coward move, so Im pretty sure I will get a coward response. For what? And Ive seen this happen before. Ive been there through all same types  I was there with [coach] Mike Malones [firing]. Ive seen how they operate. I know what kind of answer I will get anyway. So, what is the point?I wouldnt say that. I love my team. I love my coaching staff. We really had a great bond. Just to fall apart like that, it sucks. I honestly thought we were going to make the playoffs. They had another plan.I had my whole family in the van. I was just quiet. We were shocked. I had it set to go to Sacramento already. It didnt make any sense [to go elsewhere], because I had to get clothes, a couple things and ship it out here.Ive always had that issue. Ive had personal conversations with my agent about that and the whole situation anyway. He tried to steer me in their direction. And Im like, Nah, I can see through that s. Ive always had my doubts. When it comes to that, Im usually 90 percent. I knew it. But it was just told to me [no trade] so much.Honestly, it felt like a regular game. I dont know why. Maybe it was because I was here this past weekend. But it felt like a regular game.Its good to just get back to basketball. All the anticipation and all the outside noise isnt put to rest. But its good to get back to basketball.For some reason, I guess people expected a championship. I know the reality of it. Weve had one practice and a shootaround. This isnt something that is just going to happen overnight. Do we look good on paper? Yes. But being good on paper doesnt win games.DeMarcus Cousins #0 and Anthony Davis #23 of the New Orleans Pelicans work out together during practice on February 22, 2017 at the New Orleans Pelicans practice facility in Metairie, Louisiana.It has been amazing. It has been great. Everybody has been good. I went looking for a condo, so I had to go walking around downtown. The people. Its crazy. Im so comfortable here because its literally like home, Mobile. Im used to those kind of people. Its normal to me. It feels good.Yeah. I said in the press conference, Im all in. Im not here to B.S. or waste time. Im here to win. Whatever the system is, Im dialed in. Im all in. Im not here to waste time. Im not.Marc J. Spears is the senior NBA writer for The Undefeated. He used to be able to dunk on you, but he hasnt been able to in years and his knees still hurt.With unrestricted free agents like Le'Veon Bell, Kirk Cousins and Chandler Jones looking for new deals, teams across the NFL will make a play for some premier players this offseason. (0:58)Some NFL teams have a lot to do before the new league year begins March 9, while others won't have to make critical calls until the first day of the NFL draft on April 27. Click on the links below to read about the first five things that should be on the minds of each team's brass as they prepare for the offseason.Should Arizona put the franchise tag on star pass-rusher Chandler Jones or let him hit the open market? What are the Falcons' options with RB Devonta Freeman, who's nearing the end of his cheap rookie contract? Brandon Williams has established himself as one of the NFL's best nose tackles. Baltimore has to decide: Pay him or let him walk. Should the Bills stick with quarterback Tyrod Taylor or start over with someone fresh in the draft or free agency?  The Panthers have a clear need for a deep threat at wide receiver. Who makes the most sense for Carolina to target in free agency? Chicago has the option of putting the franchise tag on WR Alshon Jeffery. But is he worth $17.5 million for 2017? Tyler Eifert is entering the final season of his rookie contract. Should the Bengals extend him now or wait to see if he can stay healthy? Which makes more sense for Cleveland: draft a quarterback in the first round or target one in free agency? What kind of value should the Cowboys be looking for when fielding trade offers for quarterback Tony Romo? Ezekiel Ansah had only two sacks in 2016. Is now really the time for the Lions to sign the pass-rusher to an extension? The Texans need a quarterback and Jimmy Garoppolo could be an option. What would they have to give up to get him? How should the Colts address their massive void at pass-rusher with the free-agent market looking as if it will be thin at the position? The Jaguars have the money to give Allen Robinson an extension. What can they expect to pay for the WR? Both Eric Berry and Dontari Poe are set to hit the free-agent market. Is it possible for K.C. to keep both of them?  Should the Chargers sign pass-rusher Melvin Ingram to a long-term deal or let him play with the franchise tag?  The Rams let CB Janoris Jenkins walk in free agency last year. Can they really afford to let Trumaine Johnson leave too? Free-agent-to-be Kenny Stills had nine TDs in 2016. Is that reason enough for the Dolphins to re-sign him? How should the Vikings handle Adrian Peterson's $18 million cap hit, the highest (by far) for a running back? How much leverage do the Patriots have in Jimmy Garoppolo trade negotiations, and should they move the QB? The Giants have two key defensive linemen getting ready to hit free agency. Should they retain both Jason Pierre-Paul and Johnathan Hankins? The Jets (again) have a hole at quarterback with no heir apparent on the roster. What are they to do now? Quarterback Derek Carr has only one season left on his team-friendly rookie contract. How much should the Raiders expect to pay? Both Le'Veon Bell and Antonio Brown are set to receive big raises. How can the Steelers make both work?  What should the 49ers do with the No. 2 overall pick -- draft a QB, trade it for a QB or take the best player available? Jimmy Graham has only one year and $10 million left on his contract. Does it make sense to give the TE an extension? RB Doug Martin had a disappointing season after getting a hefty contract. Should the Bucs keep him around? The Titans are fond of running two-TE sets. Which free agent makes the most sense for them to target? For the second season in a row, Washington has a decision to make on QB Kirk Cousins. Is a long-term deal in the team's future? With unrestricted free agents like Le'Veon Bell, Kirk Cousins and Chandler Jones looking for new deals, teams across the NFL will make a play for some premier players this offseason. (0:58)Which teams will Tony Romo and Jimmy Garoppolo be starting for in 2017? John Clayton and Mike Sando go team by team and make their pre-free-agency predictions.Football Outsiders identifies five free agents -- including receiver Cordarrelle Patterson -- who still have something left to give now that their rookie deals are done.I've put together my updated ranking of the top 25 free agents of 2017, along with a projection on the contracts they'll get. That includes a few guys whom I expect to be franchise-tagged before My projections are conservative, as it's tough to tell how much teams will spend now that the salary cap has jumped to $168 million this year. So I'm judging only each player's market value, which doesn't account for teams blowing up that value with mega-deals. I'm also not including  predictions -- these are just overall values. And since the franchise tag numbers aren't yet official, I'm using my projections.Figuring out the running back market is tough, but I don't think there's any way Bell plays anywhere other than Pittsburgh in 2017.  is the highest-paid back -- the three-year deal he signed in 2015 averaged $14 million per year -- but he won't be playing at that number next season. He could be released outright, or the Vikings will restructure his deal. The next-highest-paid back is Seven-time NASCAR champion Jimmie Johnson reflects on last season's struggles and the progress his team made to help him bounce back and win the Chase for the Cup. (1:47)The expression is part confusion, part concern. In moments like this, when Johnson's mind begins to buffer toward the download of an answer he seeks, his face tends to stiffen to a distant blank stare, eyes narrowed and aimed toward the horizon, beyond the minutia directly before him.He is driving a black Chevy Suburban on Florida Highway 836, westbound from South Beach toward Miami International Airport, where he'll hang a sweeping left and grab Highway 826 south to Homestead.In three days he will weave and dart and dash -- and ultimately sprint -- a blue Chevy SS straight to the peak of NASCAR's Mount Rushmore.It is dark outside. Traffic is bad. As he drives, Johnson participates in a Facebook Live chat, answering questions about his life and its path, his innate and developed passions, things like the outdoors and the arts and his family.The buildup to Sunday's Cup race feels "bigger than usual" because NASCAR has spent the offseason trying to rescue and revive a sport that longs to recapture the glory of not-so-long-ago days.Dale Earnhardt Jr. returns at Daytona after letting his brain heal from multiple concussions -- and after undergoing a different sort of rehabilitation for his psyche.The phone rings again. This time Johnson snatches it up and holds it before him, facing outward, revealing the caller's identity to an expanding Facebook viewing audience. It's his boss, NASCAR team owner Rick Hendrick, winner of 12 Cup championships and a newly minted NASCAR Hall of Famer.On he drives. Rush hour. Throttle-brake-throttle-brake. He is detailing juice preferences and smoothie recipes and tales from the carpool line.Unbeknownst to Johnson, Hendrick is watching all of this unfold, in real time. He sees Johnson ignore his calls. No one ignores Rick Hendrick's calls, certainly not his drivers. Hendrick is quite amused. And with this revelation, so is Johnson."I just wanted to see what he'd do if I called in the middle of it," Hendrick says. "You know it happens all the time, but you don't usually get to watch someone look down at their phone and send you to voicemail."Jimmie is such a good guy that's it's almost impossible to get one over on him. He shows up when he says he's going to show up. You call him, he calls you back. You ask him to do something, he does it."There aren't a lot of opportunities to give him a hard time, so I try to take advantage when he leaves me an opening. Seeing his face when he checked that text was just priceless.""He never ceases to surprise me, what he's into or doing," Johnson says. "Who would ever think he's watching Facebook Live? He's so well-mannered, such an amazing businessman, so it's easy to be serious with him. But deep down he's one of the biggest kids I know. He's a knucklehead."That's the part I get to see that many don't see. That's a great privilege. There were a couple more times I saw him after that Facebook Live [scenario], and he'd just start laughing [and saying,] 'I can't believe you wouldn't take my call!' He'd tell everybody around him."Three days after that Johnson-Hendrick exchange in November, in the hours before he would pass 39 competitors in 400 miles to pen a shocking new chapter to his championship legacy, Johnson stands outside his motor home in the Florida sunshine and retells the Hendrick call-screening story to a group of friends and coworkers. called upon Johnson to front a Winston Cup startup band. Gordon had himself judged Johnson's performance in the arena, and repeated to Hendrick what Hendrick's son, Ricky, had said for years -- the young shoe was ready to be a big-stage headliner.This was more than a karaoke lounge drink slinger, and Gordon knew it. This was like heading down to the Gulch for a beer and happening upon Chris Stapleton at the Station Inn."Jimmie is like Bob Dylan, man, always delivering greatness," says singer Darius Rucker, a friend of Johnson's. "Even when Jimmie is not on top, he is still giving everybody what they want -- even if they don't know they want it."Part of the Hendrick/Gordon offer was the chance to race Gordon's championship-tested cars. So Johnson didn't have to write any songs, play any instruments or even have his own voice yet.The more he sang, the more he wrote. And the more he sang and the more he wrote, the more he found his own voice., one of Johnson's competitors in the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series. "It's incredible what he's established. From the second he and [crew chief] Chad Knaus teamed up, it's been magic."It is Stapleton with Justin Timberlake, on the grandest stage at the Grammys, stopping a room full of eye-roll-seen-it-before peers in its tracks with a shot of "Tennessee Whiskey." You can't help but marvel at it."And it could be argued he's the best the sport's ever seen," Bowyer continues. "That's a legitimate argument. It's Johnson shakes his head at the notion that he's the best ever. It's difficult for him to consider the thought. Comparing sporting eras is like comparing musical eras -- as the tools change, the rules change.The songs that were great then are still great now, forever appreciated. They are copyrights. But as production philosophies changed, differences in sonic preferences followed suit. Ultimately, the business evolved. are forever appreciated. They are Hall of Fame drivers. They are pioneers. They are copyrights. But the way they produced championships and the way Johnson produced championships aren't the same. The way NASCAR championships are produced changed, and the business evolved."In Richard Petty's era, racing on dirt, and more than once a week, they built their own cars with about three guys," Bowyer said. "Jimmie Johnson has 500 guys. So it's hard to judge and gauge places in history for anybody, no matter how great they are."But the ride Jimmie's on, damn! And listen, you can't hate the guy. It makes me laugh when fans are like, 'Screw Jimmie Johnson!' What? Trust me, we all want to hate him because he kicks our asses. But you just can't."Truth told, it's miraculous that Johnson made it. If he'd come along in 2009 rather than 1999, it's a real possibility he may not have."I have the chance to speak to the rookies now, and I tell them I'm thankful I'm not in your generation," Johnson says. "I wouldn't have made it."Chevrolet gave Johnson credibility with race teams, even when he says he didn't deserve it. They aligned him with the Busch Series (now Xfinity) team Herzog Motorsports, whose thrifty spending habits, excellent tutelage and tremendous patience aligned perfectly with Johnson's asphalt-racing learning curve."Based just on performance, I didn't stand out far enough. Just didn't," Johnson continues. "If I'd have had to stand out based only on my own merit, my own talent, I don't think I'd have made it. I truly don't."Looking back now, seated in the bar of a downtown Charlotte restaurant, sipping a local brew through the windbreaker mustache connected to the beard he grew and tested and cured (and only rarely manicured) on the crystal slopes of Colorado all winter, Johnson still can't believe the dirt road from East County led to the deepest pages on NASCAR's history book."It's crazy that I'm here," he says. "I've always just followed my heart, through it all. And it worked out to be the greatest situation of all time."His childhood buddies can't believe it, either, nor can any of the myriad friends he's developed along the way. No one saw this coming.Another longtime friend, Chris Tucker, notes that in retrospect it's easy to see that the puzzle pieces of Johnson's life all matched up to this. The off-road background and humble upbringing made him adaptable and appreciative. So of course Hendrick would hire him and Lowe's Home Improvement would sponsor him."There's no clear path for this coming from El Cajon [California], I can promise you," Tucker says. "He's Tom Brady -- the sixth-round draft pick and then some. Back in high school, Jimmie might not be the guy you would have identified to attain this level of success. But I'm sure glad it was him. No one else would have handled it all the way he has."When Johnson graduated from Granite Hills High School, he and a friend started a car detailing business. Every day after work, Johnston would stop by and hang out."Johnson would always be on the phone, and our other buddy would be detailing the cars -- I don't think Johnson ever washed a single car," Johnston says. "He probably still hasn't ever washed a car. He was on the phone trying to pave the road to where he is today."Granted, there was always interest. Chevrolet was invested early on, guys like Herb Fishel, who put Johnson in off-road trucks and buggies as a teenager. When he was about 16, Johnson began testing Chevy's off-road trucks for his hero, driver On the drive from his home in El Cajon to the first test session, Jimmie Johnson realized he had an issue -- his ride was a Ford Ranger. Upon arrival, he tried to park it out of sight. He failed. The racing program manager eventually saw his truck, and asked whose it was.Within a week, Johnson was told to head to the Chevy dealer. There was a program S-10 with his name on it. By 1995 he was racing those off-road trucks, but Chevy didn't have the budget to give him what's called a "pre-runner," a truck used by off-road racers to pretest, survey and learn the desert courses they would soon race. These pre-runs lasted for weeks.Without a test truck to run, Johnson simply used those program trucks. He wore them out, spending three weeks running full-bore through the desert and then hopping on Interstate 10 to drive home to El Cajon. Once, he and the boys turned a pre-run into a camping trip, and as the afternoon reached the nighttime, they saw another friend, a guy named Slip, on a lover's stroll down the beach.Johnson hopped in, hollered at Slip, fired up the S-10, and proceeded to launch it off a berm -- straight into the Pacific Ocean. The tide had come in since the last time they jumped it. The truck bottomed out, launching it onto its nose upon landing. The grill and the radiator were blown out of it. Substantial repair was required just to get it home. More repair was required to return it to Chevy.In 2000 and 2001, he'd done well enough in Herzog's equipment to garner interest from some of NASCAR's marquee programs.He said his former Busch Series sponsor, ALLTEL Wireless, was planning to leave Herzog and head to Penske Racing. ALLTEL's founding family, the Fords, asked Johnson if he'd like an endorsement with team owner Roger Penske. Johnson declined.Johnson says his heart was loyal to the Herzogs and Chevrolet, to reciprocate their belief in him. Dolan detailed that loyalty well.In the late 90s, Dolan said, Johnson was driving an ARCA car at Daytona, and Chevy helped with minimal funding and decals on the machine. At a banquet soon thereafter, Johnson approached Dolan with a panoramic picture of the car, a handshake and a promise: "I promise you someday I'll make Chevy really proud."Johnson's plan all along was to ascend to Cup with Herzog Motorsports. That was also the team's plan, but it never materialized. So Johnson began working the phones. He said he talked to Joe Gibbs Racing president J.D. Gibbs at every opportunity, wearing the grass bare around Johnson's Lake Norman home, in an effort to drive the No. 20 Rockwell Automation car.At the same time, the rumor began to circulate that the Busch Series' premiere organization in that era, ppc Racing, a powerhouse multicar group with drivers That was a hell of an opportunity. Green would win the 2000 series championship by more than 600 points. Johnson had several conversations with former ppc Racing crew chief Steve Addington."He calls me like, bro, you interested?" Johnson says now with a laugh. "Really? I'm unemployed, man! Hell yes, I'm interested!"Johnson's spotter at Herzog, Lorin Ranier, had a long history in NASCAR. His father was a team owner who fielded cars for the likes of . At the end of the 2000 season, Ranier headed for a job at Chip Ganassi Racing and informed Johnson of an opportunity -- a startup Cup program, the No. 01 Cingular Dodge Intrepid.A meeting was called at Concord Regional Airport near Charlotte. At the table are Johnson, Ranier and part-owner Felix Sabates. Ganassi's plane lands. In he walks, briefcase in hand. The foursome chats for 10 or 15 minutes about who would build the cars and engines, and who the crew chief might be.Then Ganassi pops open the briefcase and throws four contracts on the table, tells Johnson to fill in what he believes his salary should be, and to sign them.Shocked, Johnson asks to read the documents, to show his attorney, to take them home for some consideration first. Nope. Deal or no deal, kid. Now or never.Johnson wasn't pleased. He was anxious and extremely frustrated by the meeting, and concerned that he'd thrown away his only shot. A Cup Series opportunity is the dream of every stock car racer from Lake Norman to Lake Tahoe. There may never be another opportunity.Johnson had a long-standing relationship with Hendrick Motorsports. In April 1997, the Johnson home phone rings in the wee hours of the night. His parents were standing there, bleary-eyed, pissed off.Jimmy was an HMS executive. He informed Jimmie that there was a Saturday night short-track-series race car in North Carolina, which Jimmie could run anytime he wanted, as much as he wanted, every night if he wished.Jimmie bought a one-way ticket to North Carolina. He ran a few races, but the relationship was short-lived. The team was outmanned. More often than not Johnson and his girlfriend were pushing the car through the pits and up into prerace technical inspection.Once, at Hickory Motor Speedway, there was a timing mix-up. The team owner told Johnson the time he believed the track opened. It was actually the time practice began. Johnson stood outside the wall and watched."I called Jimmy and said, 'Look man, I can't do this anymore,'" Jimmie says. "'I'm a pro. This isn't pro.'"'s urging -- there was discussion between Johnson's attorney, Alan Miller, and the Hendrick camp about a letter of intent. Johnson had no leverage. But when the Ganassi offer showed up, Miller went straight to HMS.Meanwhile, Johnson needed advice, so he approached Gordon in a driver's meeting at Michigan International Speedway. Gordon was very impressed with Johnson's car control, how he had overachieved in lesser equipment.In a matter of a couple weeks, Hendrick sent a letter of intent. Miller declined, realizing they now had leverage.Then came a real contract -- and history. From 2002 through 2016 in NASCAR's top series, Johnson accrued 80 wins and seven championships."It's crazy that I'm here, thinking back on all of that stuff," he says. "I just always went with my heart. That's it."Back in that black Suburban in November, Johnson arrives at Homestead Miami Speedway. He recalls all the success here, the sweet memories.He drives out onto the racing surface to remind himself of its fissures, bumps, quirks and tendencies. Six times he has raised a championship trophy here. Some of his life's sweetest memories live inside these walls.After a few laps, he stops on the track between Turns 1 and 2, just as security vehicles scream up from both sides. The guards, all riled up, wonder aloud if the perpetrator in the Suburban belongs. Upon realizing it's Johnson, they relent and move along."Watching him all these years has been like having a fine case of great wine in your closet," Rucker says. "Every time you open a bottle, it's better than the last one."The Streamline Hotel in Daytona Beach is recognized as the birthplace of NASCAR. It is currently undergoing a renovation and will open April 1.Ryan Reed, who once was told he would never race again because of diabetes, won in the Xfinity Series for the second time at Daytona in his career. He celebrated with a big burnout.Wayne Heffernan and his family from St. Augustine, Florida built a tower out of wood in 90 minutes to watch the Daytona 500 in the infield on Sunday. This is their fifth straight Daytona 500.Chris Lewis from Satellite Beach, Florida shows off his observation stand on his Dodge Ram parked in the infield of Daytona. This is his 28th Daytona 500.From coolers and jackets to shirts and hats, there's Dale Earnhardt Jr. merchandise everywhere at Daytona.Driving around Daytona's 180-acre infield, which is lined with RVs and campers and people sitting on the roof to catch a glimpse of the action on the track.The 101,500 grandstand seats are sold out for the Daytona 500. Track officials say they have had tickets purchased from people in 41 countries.JR Holler, driver of the hauler for Michael McDowell's No. 95 Chevrolet SS, gives a tour of his ride before the Daytona 500.Kevin Harvick's No. 4 Ford Fusion and AJ Allmendinger's No. 47 Chevrolet SS going through inspections after Saturday's practice in Daytona.Stewart-Haas Racing still needs sponsorship for the majority of races for Clint Bowyer and a significant number for Danica Patrick. Team co-owner Tony Stewart said the team is committed to four cars: "We definitely have a lot of races to sell right now.  It's definitely not a position we want to be in. It's a curveball for us. But I'm very confident in our marketing staff. I don't feel like this is a deal breaker for us. We won't sacrifice performance over this. When you have four teams. It's a lot of inventory to sell. You're going to have times like this."Ricky Stenhouse Jr. led the final practice Saturday for the Daytona 500. Only 28 drivers went out during the 85-minute session as some opted not to take a chance of wrecking. Now all the teams, such as Jimmie Johnson's shown here, can do is tinker on the cars prior to the race Sunday.5-Hour Energy can remain as sponsor of Furniture Row Racing  and only of Furniture Row Racing  as long as Monster Energy is sponsor of the NASCAR Cup Series. It cannot change teams and cannot follow driver Erik Jones if he leaves as part of the grandfather clause implemented by NASCAR in light of Monster's exclusivity provision as part of the sponsorship. The reason 5-Hour can stay is because its contract with Furniture Row  signed before the Monster deal was done with NASCAR  has option clauses for an extension, and NASCAR cannot bar those clauses from being implemented. "We're grandfathered with 5-Hour," team owner Barney Visser said Saturday. "They're going to have to stay with Furniture Row. There's no limit [of years]. We had an open-ended contract that way, so they could stay as long as they want." NASCAR, which has declined to release specifics of the grandfather clause, confirmed the accuracy of Visser's statement.Dale Earnhardt Jr tells Marty Smith the Daytona 500, " is almost like it it's own season. You go through more highs and lows during the race itself."Tony Stewart cut back on his sprint-car schedule for a week after competing in his All Star Circuit of Champions in early February, Stewart said he won't adjust his schedule much from his original plans to run as many as 80 sprint-car races this year, ranging from his own series to others. Stewart, who retired from NASCAR racing after last season, said: "I'm still going to run just as many. I cut back last week, but we've been racing this week and we're going to stick to our schedule. We're full steam ahead."