football-italia

	Mario Mandzukic  with the aid of the crossbar and Lukasz Skorupski  and Alex Sandro eventually broke Empoli down for a 2-0 Juventus victory. consecutive Serie A home win, an on-going all-time record, which put more pressure on Roma as they visit Inter tomorrow night.
	It took a surprising amount of time to get through the Empoli wall, but Mandzukics header off the crossbar  and off Skorupski  breached their defences.
	Alex Sandro then turned brilliantly to nutmeg Vincent Laurini with a snooker shot into the far bottom corner.
	The encounter also marked the return of Leonardo Bonucci, who had been dropped due to disciplinary reasons.
	Inter could try to use Ivan Perisic as part of an exchange deal to swoop for Arsenals Alexis Sanchez, also wanted by Juventus.
	Alexis is increasingly unlikely to extend his contract with Arsenal, which is due to expire in June 2018, so a summer sale seems inevitable.
	Serie A is calling after his initial successful spell at Udinese, with Juventus and Inter showing a lot of interest.
	According to Calciomercato.com, the Nerazzurri hope to get the upper hand in this situation by offering Perisic as part of an exchange deal.
	Arsene Wenger has long been a fan of the Croatian winger, who recently changed agent to Fali Ramadani.
	English papers are also suggesting that Chile international Gary Medel could be used as part of the swap for Sanchez.
	The Orobici returned home this evening and were met by crowds of supporters with flags and fireworks.
	This enthusiasm has been sparked by their best ever Serie A season, flying into fourth place and just three points away from Napoli in third.
	Gian Piero Gasperinis side are more accustomed to fighting off the threat of relegation, but are suddenly challenging for a place in Europe.
	They have put together 16 wins, three draws and seven defeats this season, scoring 42 goals and conceding 26.
	Its particularly remarkable considering Gasperini was almost fired a month into the campaign for poor results.
	Atalanta also sold midfielder Roberto Gagliardini to Inter in January, but have maintained their form anyway.
	Empoli Coach Giovanni Martusciello thought they held out as long as possible against runaway Serie A leaders Juventus.
	However, Mario Mandzukics header went in off the crossbar and the goalkeeper, then Alex Sandro netted a second 
	The first half was excellent and for long periods we were able to keep their midfield under control, passing the ball around well, Martusciello told Mediaset Premium.
	In the end, Juve are the strongest side in Serie A and the enormous gulf in quality emerged. I certainly wont complain about our performance.
	When it comes to safety, theres a long road ahead of us and we need to be more efficient in front of goal to finish off some of these chances.
	The Bianconeri had to wait until the second half to break down Empoli with Mario Mandzukic  aided by deflection off Lukasz Skorupski  and Alex Sandro.
	It wasnt an easy game, as were in a packed fixture list and coming off a Champions League trip to Porto, the Coach told Sky Sport Italia and Mediaset Premium.
	The lads did very well this evening. Empoli are, among the teams lower down the table, the side who pass it around the most and that can be frustrating.
	We stepped up a gear after the break, scored two goals and couldve had more. We really regret conceding that goal against Palermo, otherwise it wouldve been seven straight clean sheets.
	Napoli can still be in it, but the fact remains we have to focus only on ourselves and realise our destiny is in our own hands.
	It will be tough against Napoli in the Coppa Italia semi-final on Wednesday and well have to make some more changes to ensure the fitness levels are still good enough.
	Mandzukic guarantees physicality as well as technique, above all hes valuable on set plays. Paulo Dybala had played a lot of games, we have another on Wednesday, so I preferred to rest him and give us more strength with Stefano Sturaro.
	Leonardo Bonucci was brought back into the team after he was dropped for the Champions League against Porto due to their touchline row in the closing minutes of last Fridays win over Palermo.
	There are some things a Coach needs to let slide, others that he has to focus on. The most important thing is to keep a cool head and make the right choices at the right time. If you let your emotions take over, it leads to mistakes.
	Bonucci came back well, put in a good performance and the case is closed. There are moments during a season when you discuss and debate things, its just unfortunately the whole world saw us and it mightve been different if it had happened in the locker room.
	We have a group of great professionals and above all great men. Between us, we managed to give the side a shake-up it needed to stay focused against Porto.
	Of course I will. We still need to play Roma this season and itll do us good to see how they play. Itd be nice if Roma didnt win, but the important thing is that we won tonight. Our destiny is in our hands.
	I am happy with the goal, of course, but the most important thing was to get the victory, he told Sky Sport Italia.
	We knew it was going to be difficult, as Empoli are a well-organised and pretty solid team, but we stayed patient and struck at the right moment."
	The Brazilian danced to mark his second Serie A goal of the season, joined by Juan Cuadrado and Dani Alves.
	It is always important, the people care about the Coppa Italia and we will work to get the victory.
	Diego Lopez told Palermo they have no option other than to get points against Sampdoria in the early Sunday game.
	We need points in every game and against every team we possibly can, said the Coach in his Press conference.
	We tried against Juventus, even if the result didnt bear fruit. We must try to whittle down our individual errors, as those are damaging the whole team. I told the lads they must be concentrated from start to finish.
	If we want to send a strong signal, we have to beat Sampdoria. After the Napoli game, I said we needed to provide much better service for Ilija Nestorovski.
	Sampdoria are solid and run hard with two very good centre-forwards. Weve got to fight for every ball.
	Lopez has generally not started Alessandro Diamanti since taking over and he insists there is a reason.
	Diamanti has done very well coming off the bench, as he is someone who can change a game and shake things up.
	Edoardo Goldaniga is suspended with Stefan Silva, Giuseppe Pezzella, Slobodan Rajkovic and Simone Lo Faso injured. Fulignati, Marson, Posavec;Aleesami, Andelkovic, Cionek, Gonzalez, Morganella, Rispoli, Sunjic, Vitiello;Bruno Henrique, Chochev, Gazzi, Jajalo; Balogh, Bonfiglio, Diamanti, Embalo, Nestorovski, Sallai, Trajkovski
	Simone Inzaghi urged Lazio to focus on Udinese and not get distracted by the upcoming Coppa Italia semi-final with Roma.
	We are facing an Udinese side that is coming off two undeserved defeats. I was fortunate enough to be coached by Gigi Del Neri, so I know hes well-prepared and will do everything to make it a great game.
	I saw my players are focused, they know that we have to focus on Udinese. The only imperative is to bring home the three points and continue this run of positive results with good football.
	I have to make a few evaluations, as some players are carrying a few knocks. I do have some like Patric, Stefan Radu and Senad Lulic who wont be there on Wednesday in the Coppa, so theyll start with Udinese.
	Sergej Milinkovic-Savic has recovered, but has been coming off an intense period and well see whether he needs to rest.
	This is an important week for Lazio and we dont have any easy games. Udinese have some really experienced players who can be decisive. We want to go all the way.
	Federico Marchetti is not in the squad yet after a muscular injury and is also in doubt against Roma on Wednesday.
	Last night Roma got the go-ahead to build their own stadium and Lazio immediately demanded equal treatment for their own project.
	Its pleasing news, as Lazio and Roma represent the city of Rome, so its only right that both should have their own purposed-built stadiums, noted Inzaghi.
	Join us for all the build-up and action from todays Serie A games, as its third against fourth with Napoli-Atalanta and leaders Juventus host Empoli.
	The round begins at the Stadio San Paolo at 17.00 GMT when on form Napoli welcome an Atalanta side that is surprising everyone in the race for European qualification.
	Maurizio Sarri will be tempted to rest some stars ahead of Tuesdays Coppa Italia semi-final with Juventus, so Papu Gomez and Andrea Petagna  who already beat Napoli once this season  could cause an upset.
	At 19.45 GMT, Serie A leaders Juventus host Empoli in Turin and try to keep the same level of focus that saw them beat Porto in the Champions League.
	Juventus director Beppe Marotta insists Leonardo Bonuccis row with Max Allegri was over-emphasised, as these things happen in every family.
	The defender was dropped for Wednesdays 2-0 Champions League victory away to Porto as punishment for exchanging insults with his Coach on the touchline.
	Bonucci is the usual Bonucci. What the media tried to call the Bonucci incident was closed. We have another test tonight and he is one of the protagonists, as always, Marotta told Mediaset Premium 
	We didnt particularly need to mediate between Bonucci and Allegri. All the players are present in locker room situations. Our community has rules that need to be respected.
	We did not put anyone on trial, we just clarified certain aspects in the best possible way, as all good families do. The idea of its either me or him was dreamed up by the media. The job of the club is to support the Coach and team, intervening when necessary. These things happen in a family, its just in this case it was in front of the cameras and therefore was over-emphasised.
	We know that March and April are the most important months of the campaign, as there are so many fixtures jammed together in three different tournaments. We know what we have to do, regardless of the opponent.
	On paper Empoli might seem like an easy team to beat, but thats not the case. We need to play with the guts worthy of the Serie A leaders.
	I was able to glimpse a bit of that performance and he did very well. He is improving, he plays in an organised side with a great Coach like Gian Piero Gasperini, so this experience in the provinces will do him good.