fortune
U.S. Democrats elected former Labor Secretary Tom Perez as chairman on Saturday, choosing a veteran of the Obama administration to lead the daunting task of rebuilding the party and heading the opposition to Members of the Democratic National Committee, the administrative and fundraising arm of the party, picked Perez on the second round of voting after one of the most Perez will face challenges in trying to unify and rejuvenate a party still reeling from the Nov. 8 loss of Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and anxious to channel the growing grassroots resistance to Trump into political support for Democrats at all levels of government across the country."We are suffering from a crisis of confidence, a crisis of relevance," Perez, a favorite of former Obama administration officials, told DNC members. He promised to lead the fight against Trump and change the DNC's culture to make it a more grassroots operation.Perez beat top challenger U.S. Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota, who was backed by liberal leader U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, on a 235-200 vote. Perez is the son of Dominican immigrants, while Ellison is the first Muslim elected to the U.S. Congress.The showdown between candidates backed by the establishment and progressive wings of the party echoed the bitter 2016 primary between Clinton and Sanders, a rift Democrats will try to put behind them as they turn their focus to fighting Trump.The Department of Homeland Security has announced plans to begin soliciting pitches for a prototype design of President Trump's  Friday, says contractors can submit proposals starting March 6. Submissions for the concept designs will then close on March 10, with selected applicants narrowed down by the 20th. The remaining vendors must then satisfy the full proposal request and offer an Homeland Security said it's possible that multiple winners will be selected. It plans to announce the winning design(s) of the wall, which runs nearly 2,000 miles, in mid-April.At a speech at the Conservative Political Action Conference on Friday, Trump said the wall would be built "soon.". "We're going to build a wall, don't worry about it. We're building the wall, we're building the wall. In fact, it's going to start soon. Way ahead of schedule, way ahead of schedule."The Department of Homeland Security, however, still does not know how much the wall will cost. Trump has repeatedly claimed that Mexico will foot the bill, but the Mexican government has been  from an off-camera press gaggle that took the place of the days open press briefing. The barred outlets have uniformly been key players in investigating ties between the Trump administration and Russian leadership, or in framing the issue as dire for the administrations legitimacy.. While its not uncommon for small groups of reporters to be given of-camera White House briefings, veteran reporters have described the explicit exclusion of particular media organizations as unprecedented.CNN was the first outlet to report publicly on a long-rumored document from a former British intelligence agent, alleging Trumps vulnerability to . Shortly thereafter, Buzzfeed published the document in full. CNN later reported that some portions of the document had been  against former Trump political advisor Paul Manafort, due to his ties to the former pro-Russian president of Ukraine, Victor Yanukovich., and One America News Network, have been much more skeptical of the significance of the Russia issue. The One America News Network recently published claims that  and that there is no reason for there to be a bad relationship between the United States and Russia. that President Trumps cabinet picks are aimed at deconstruction of the administrative state, meaning weakening regulatory agencies and other bureaucratic entities.The way the progressive left runs, is if they cant get it passed, theyre just going to put in some sort of regulation in an agency, Bannon continued. Thats all going to be deconstructed and I think thats why this regulatory thing is so important.President Trumps critics have noted that at least some of his Cabinet picks seem uniquely unsuited to their roles. , had previously challenged its regulations in more than a dozen suits. Trumps initial pick for labor secretary, Andrew Puzder, operated a company that  and energy secretary have also been critics of the very agencies theyre now tasked with managing. Rick Perry, Trumps pick for energy secretary, famously called to Putting anti-regulation chairs at the top of regulatory bodies is nothing new for conservative administrationsGeorge W. Bushs EPA administrator Stephen Johnson, for instance, pushed back against staff recommendations and . As the saying goes, elections have consequences, and lightening the regulatory load on businesses is a pillar of modern Republican doctrine.Whats remarkable here, though, is Bannons framing of these moves as more anti-state than pro-business. The CPAC comments about deconstruction are a toned-down version of startling statements made last August to . Bannon impishly declared himself a Leninist, saying that the Soviet leader wanted to destroy the state, and thats my goal too. I want to bring everything crashing down, and destroy all of todays establishment. in filling hundreds of lower-level cabinet positions. Until they're filled, those positions are staffed by temporary administrators with reduced power, leaving enforcement and other matters in limbo.on foreign policy, stating "I always say we have to be unpredictable....predictable is bad." While some now see destructive  showing a pack of tigers stalking a drone flying overhead. While the droneapparently operated by a humanwas safely out of the tigers' reach for a while, one of the tigers eventually had enough and snatched it out of the sky. The tigers then pounced on the drone, and promptly started to tear it apart in hopes of having a nice meal.French media outlets recently published details on an experimental program within French special forces aimed at taking out drones. The special army unit has for months been  charged with seeking out drones and taking them down mid-air. The eagles use their talons, which can expert pressure up to 500 pounds per square inch, to snatch the eagles out of the air.The tigers in the latest video seem to be lounging around when a drone operator mistakenly flew the device too close. Then they took it down.But let's hope the operators don't do it again: Siberian tigers are endangered and countries around the world are trying to grow the species' numbers. After the tigers started tearing apart the drone, its battery malfunctioned and started to smoke.While it thankfully didn't explode, such battery malfunctions can catch fire and in some cases, explode. It's yet another reminder to remember animal safety when using electronics around them.As Republicans try to unite around a replacement for the Affordable Care Act, one of the most popular parts of the law will be among the most difficult to replace: the guarantee of health coverage for people with pre-existing conditions.The challenge of providing insurance for Americans who have no other alternative has some congressional Republicans considering whether to ask the states to reboot high-risk pools, an option with a rocky history. In the past, the pools served as insurers of last resort for people in poor health who could not get an individual policy from a commercial insurer."It's definitely a hand-off to the states," said economist Douglas Holtz-Eakin, who has reviewed the GOP plans and a recent briefing document for members of Congress. "It's a commitment for money. It doesn't say how much."The health care law requires insurance companies to cover people with serious medical problems at the same premium prices as everyone else. President Donald Trump has said he wants to "keep pre-existing conditions," but he has not said how.As they returned home during the recent congressional recess, some lawmakers received an earful from people concerned about possible GOP health care changes."I'm really angry about it," said Vicki Tosher, a 64-year-old breast cancer patient in Englewood, Colorado, who likes the subsidized health plan she buys through the Affordable Care Act for $345 a month.Whatever happens, the effects could be broadly felt. The nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation estimates that 27 percent of adults under age 65 have health conditions that would likely leave them uninsurable under practices that existed before the health care overhaul.Some Republicans say they will preserve protection for pre-existing conditions, but with a catch. People would have to maintain continuous coverage before earning the protection  for 18 months in the plan offered by former Rep. Tom Price, Trump's health secretary. Those who go without coverage or who never had insurance could buy a policy through a state-run high-risk pool.High-risk pools have been tried before, with mixed results. It worked like this: Sick people with problems ranging from arthritis to congestive heart failure were placed in a separate insurance pool, with government and insurance companies helping to cover costs. They were also charged higher rates, up to double the amount paid by consumers with no serious ailments.In the more than 30 states that had high-risk pools, net losses piled up to more than $1.2 billion in 2011, the height of the pools before the Affordable Care Act took full effect.The programs covered about 225,000 Americans back then. Most pools had lifetime and annual limits on coverage. Some imposed waiting periods of up to a year for coverage of a pre-existing condition."It's unfair. It's kind of like living in a ghetto," she said. Returning to a system in which insurers could charge any amount to people with pre-existing conditions "is a major concern for me."Tosher, a self-employed editor, told her story during a rally outside Republican Sen. Cory Gardner's office a few weeks ago. She's among the many constituents who have called, protested or written to their lawmakers in support of the Obama-era health care law.Until the health care overhaul, most states allowed insurers to quiz applicants for regular individual policies with lengthy questionnaires, including details about the health of each family member. Insurers could review medical and pharmacy records. A prescription for insulin for diabetes or an immunosuppressant for arthritis could mean a denial of coverage.Insurers automatically denied individual coverage for people with cancer, cerebral palsy, congestive heart failure and many other conditions. Or they excluded certain conditions and even family members in the coverage they offered.In every state that ran a high-risk pool in 2011, medical expenses outpaced premiums, and losses averaged $5,500 per enrollee. States used fees and taxes to make up the difference."High-risk pools have been government's attempt to get at the issue of access to health insurance," said Al Redmer Jr., Maryland's insurance commissioner and a leader in the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.Under the law, the government set up a temporary program called the Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan, to serve as a bridge until the phase-in of the requirement that insurers accept people with health problems. The plan was open to people who had a pre-existing condition and had been uninsured for at least six months. Premiums were comparable to what healthy customers paid.But the cost of care quickly threatened to drain the $5 billion budgeted for the program. With about 100,000 patients participating nationwide, the government unexpectedly froze enrollment. Then midway through the 2013 plan year, 17 states unwilling to pay for cost overruns turned their programs back to the federal government.Patients did not lose coverage, but they had to meet new deductibles and out-of-pocket limits, which meant thousands of dollars in unplanned costs for those being treated for serious illnesses.Starting in 2014, insurers were forbidden from turning away people in poor health, and the cost of their care was spread across the entire pool of people with individual policies. That's one reason the cost of those policies has soared. The increases have especially affected people whose income is too high to qualify for a government premium subsidy.As we noshed gnocchi at the Four Season's Hotel, I learned about the group's work. One researcher, Liron David, a PhD student at Tel-Aviv University, described an improved technique for recovering cryptographic keys from so-called side channel attacks. These attacks entail using weaknesses in the physical implementation of a system (like the sound, heat, and electromagnetic energy emitted by a whirring hard drive), as opposed to algorithmic flaws (like a faulty random number generator), for decipherment. Her  on "oblivious transfer." First developed in 1981, this privacy-protective mechanism allows one party, like a person or computer server, to relay information to another party without knowing exactly what has been sent. Imagine looking up a contacts phone number through a messaging service, like WhatsApp for example, without the company behind it (in this case Facebook ) knowing which information you sought. That extra privacy might be preferable under certain circumstances, Scholl said.Cryptography is a vitally important, if opaque, sciencethe basis of our security in an increasingly digital world. A reminder of that arrived Thursday when researchers at  for a decades-old cryptographic algorithm called SHA-1. Suffice it to say that they achieved a featthe first "collision" of data supposedly secured by SHA-1which will have immediate ramifications for the way many businesses operate electronically. (The The chairman of Dubai Holding, the investment vehicle of the emirate's ruler and a major force in developing the Dubai economy, has resigned to focus on his role in the national government, the conglomerate said on Saturday.As head of Dubai Holding since its founding in 2004, Mohammed Abdullah al-Gergawi came to oversee a $35 billion portfolio of assets in over 20 countries, in industries ranging from tourism and real estate to media, information technology and trade.Gergawi said in a statement it was time for another talented person, whom he did not identify, to take over Dubai Holding, and that he would now work full-time for the United Arab Emirates government. He is minister of cabinet affairs and in charge of strategy development in the national government.Now in his early 50s, Gergawi was one of a small group of executives chosen by Dubai ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum more than a decade ago to develop the economy.Put in charge of Dubai's strategic state-linked companies, they favored construction projects which burnished its reputation as an international business and travel hub: the world's tallest skyscraper, the Middle East's largest port and an archipelago of man-made islands in the shape of a palm.Gergawi's career took off when he launched an office district on the outskirts of Dubai, persuading a foreign bank to lend him $55 million, according to a person close to him. That project brought him nearer Sheikh Mohammed, who praised him in a statement on Saturday.Dubai Holding came under heavy pressure in 2009 when the global financial crisis and a local real estate market crash nearly caused the emirate to default on its debt.But most of the business districts which Gergawi established in Dubai continued to thrive. The emirate is now booming again, with its non-oil industries supporting the UAE economy at a time when some other countries in the region are suffering because of low oil prices.Since the debt crisis, Dubai Holding and other state-linked enterprises have strengthened their books by refinancing debt and selling assets. However, the International Monetary Fund said last August that $51.6 billion of Dubai debt would come due in 2016-18 and that this could be a problem if the global economy slowed and real estate prices tumbled again.Dubai Holding also announced on Saturday strong financial results for 2016 at one of its main business groups, Dubai Holding Commercial Operations Group.Net profit rose 8% to 6.32 billion dirhams ($1.7 billion) while revenues increased 16% to 16.84 billion dirhams.Major initiatives last year included the launch of a project to build the Gulf's first design and innovation university, and the expansion of Dubai Holding's Jumeirah hospitality business with deals to manage luxury hotels in Turkey and China, the conglomerate said. to take control of China's banking regulator, returns to Beijing at a decisive moment for the country's financial system following years of breakneck economic growth.The immediate challenge for the new chairman of the China Banking Regulatory Commission (CRBC) is formidableGuo must vigorously address troubled lending in the country's 232 trillion yuan ($34 trillion) banking sector and implement tougher measures to control lightly regulated shadow banking activities.For Guo, highly regarded as one of China's most experienced financial services professionals, returning to Beijing follows an accomplished career including appointments as chairman of China Construction Bank Corp, the head of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, and most recently as a provincial governor.Guo is considered by many as a passionate reformist, drawing up more than 70 new policies during his 18 months as chief stock market regulator from 2011 to 2013.He tried to revive a stagnant stock market, boosting participation by foreign investors while campaigning against widespread insider trading, poor information disclosure and weak corporate governance.He also advocated reform of the initial public offerings system and promoted the delisting of loss-making firms."Guo's appointment to CBRC brings him back to his area of core expertise: banking," said James Stent, a former independent director at two Chinese banks and author of China's Banking Transformation."CBRC is a big, complicated organization. You have to be a competent manager. Guo Shuqing has proven in spades he's capable of doing the job."Guo, a philosophy major and a visiting scholar at Oxford University, is a native of China's Inner Mongolia region and is a fluent English speaker. Since 2001, he also has served as a deputy central bank governor and as a top foreign exchange regulator.Like central bank governor Zhou Xiaochuan and former finance minister Lou Jiwei, Guo is widely respected as a reform-minded policymaker.He was appointed to run CBRC to replace Shang Fulin, who has reached the official retirement age of 65.Deleveraging and containing risk have been identified as top priorities for the current government, as China's top leaders prepare to gather at the twice-a-decade leadership reshuffle of the ruling Communist Party this autumn.China's banking sector is dominated by state-owned lenders, which are responsible for supporting political and economic priorities of central and provincial governments.Guo, 60, also must wrestle with the thorny problems associated with helping regulate China's fast-growing online finance industry, which has become a hothouse for both innovation and fraud.A prolific author with more than 300 research papers and 16 books to his name, Guo inherits a banking sector that has expanded swiftly, fueled by the country's rapid credit growth.Banking assets over the last five years have more than doubled, helping to push the volume of non-performing loans at Chinese commercial banks to 1.51 trillion yuan by the end of last year, the highest since 2005.China's shadow banking system, comprising a range of opaque and lightly-regulated financial products, also has grown rapidly under the guise of financial innovation.Shadow banking's entanglement with traditional financial institutions, especially more vulnerable small and mid-sized banks, has raised concerns about potential systemic risks.Shang, who led the CBRC from 2011 to 2016, faced criticism for not being firm enough on those activities."Shang has not been a tough regulator in keeping things under control," said Fraser Howie, an independent analyst and author of Red Capitalism. "Banking is far more complicated and opaque than it was before."Guo's needs to come out with "serious and respected" regulation addressing shadow banking products, Howie said.Guo will work closely with China's powerful central bank, which is tightening oversight of the surging asset management industry that has drawn the eye of investors seeking high yields and quick profits.Before joining the securities regulator, Guo steered China Construction Bank Corp to its successful initial share sale, which raised $8 billion.Guo will need to navigate the CBRC through the financial regulatory system shake-ups in the coming months and years. Market speculation about unifying banking, insurance, securities regulators under the leadership of the central bank has been rampant since China's stock market crash in 2015."Don't take too much risk. But not too little either. If you don't take any risk how can you make any money," Guo told Reuters in an interview in 2010.