fox-sports

Use of this website (including any and all parts and components) constitutes your acceptance of these 
Use of this website (including any and all parts and components) constitutes your acceptance of these SCOTTSDALE, Ariz.  A tweet, thats all it was. A retweet of an on-line article from ABC 7 Chicago that said, South Elgin boy, 12, out of coma, after allegedly beaten by classmate.Henry Sembdners father, also named Henry, did not see the tweet. At the time, the elder Sembdner did not have a Twitter account. A friend called him and said, Did you see this?One-hundred thirty-six characters, thats all it was Rizzo sent his initial tweet with four characters to spare. And then, 29 minutes later on Feb. 6, he followed with this:Rizzo, 27, kept his word the next day, retweeting a series of photos from elementary, middle-school and high-school students in SouthElgin, Illinois, a northwest suburb of Chicago.And he plans to keep his word to Henry about the visit to Wrigley, too; his foundation, the Anthony Rizzo Family Foundation, already has made contact with the Sembdner family.On Feb. 3, officials from Kenyon Woods Middle School told parents that a student physically assaulted another student and left him severely beaten.That student was Henry, a seventh grader who turns 13 on Friday. He suffered brain and skull injuries, requiring doctors to place him in an induced coma.For him the way that happened, from the story Ive heard and read, it just was terrible, Rizzo said.Rizzo sent out his tweets on Feb. 6. Henry was released from the hospital the next day. But his recovery is only beginning.He cant play sports for a full year, Henrys father said via phone Saturday from South Elgin, Illinois. His baseball career for a year is done. Its going to be a long, boring summer for him. But hes better every day, which is good. And were slowly working with the school to transition him back.For Rizzo, it is natural to reach out to kids in need he was once such a kid himself, diagnosed with Hodgkins lymphoma in April 2008. He was 18 at the time, less than one year removed from being the Red Soxs sixth-round pick out of Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland.Two years before Rizzos diagnosis, Lester had endured his own bout with cancer, anaplastic large cell lymphoma. The following year, at age 23, he won the clinching game of the World Series in his first postseason start.Rizzo, at the time of his diagnosis, was playing for Red Soxs Class A affiliate in Greenville, S.C. Shortly after receiving the news, he met Lester during a visit to Fenway Park at the invitation of then Red Sox-GM Theo Epstein.He was Jon Lester, Rizzo said. For him to talk to me meant the world to me. I experienced that first-hand, so I just know. Its weird that people think that. But I remember thinking it, too.If you can just make him smile for a second, it can go a long way, Rizzo said. Obviously it gained a lot of steam. But that wasnt the intent.More major leaguers do extensive charity and community work than fans know. Clubs nominate the most diligent for the Roberto Clemente Award; Rizzo was the Cubs nominee last season; the Mets Curtis Granderson the overall winner. But by and large, most players understand their unique platform.. His foundation has raised almost $2 million for cancer research and to provide support to children and their families battling the disease.Lester, 33, said he admires his younger teammates willingness to visit hospitals; the pitcher, who is uncomfortable visiting hospitals, prefers to play host to children at home and away games.Of course, Rizzos tweets to Henry were more than just a hello the first included the offer of tickets and passes to a Cubs game, the second was a call for his school to rally around the boy.Henry is the youngest of the four Sembdner children. The elder Henry is a superintendent for a construction company. His wife, Karen, is an administrative assistant for a fire protection company, but taking a leave absence to care for her son (donors, Friends at work actually called me when they heard about the Anthony Rizzo thing and theyre like, All right now, be honest: Who was more excited? You? Or Henry? the elder Henry said.A Cubs C, 6 feet in diameter, is painted on the Sembdners garage door. The elder Henry said he honored the late Ron Santo by putting his name and number on the corner of the door. He saves all kinds of Cubs memorabilia, but my name is not Rockefeller, so I can only collect so much.The younger Henry does not have one favorite Cub, his father saidhe is a fan of all of the infielders. But before he visits Wrigley, the boy plans to participate in another public event at his middle school. He for the St. Baldricks Foundation, an organization dedicated to curing childhood cancer, on March 17.
Use of this website (including any and all parts and components) constitutes your acceptance of these Hundreds of millions of dollars will be thrown around in a few weeks when NFL free agency begins on March 9. Players will sign lucrative deals to change cities, while others will sit on the market longer than they probably should.That doesnt mean theyre not great players. It just means there are bigger names available more deserving of $100 million contracts.These nine players wont break the bank and cash in on contracts that pay them north of $15 million per year. Theyll be bargains on the open market who will be difference-makers in Year 1 with their new teams. When it comes to getting the biggest bang for thebuck, teams should look no further than these underrated players.Patterson has been a disappointementin the NFL up to this point. He hasnt carved out a consistent role in Minnesota and is more of a gadget player than he is a true wide receiver. Thats OK. Because of his struggles thus far, his cost will be lower than it probably should be. Someone like the Patriots or Colts can figure out a way to utilize his skill set to suit their offense best, while also benefiting from his ability to return kicks. Heck, he could be converted to full-time running back and thrive in that role. He just needs the right team to take a chance on him.Leary was viewed as a backup guard before this season. When Lael Collins went down with an injury, though, Leary stepped in and proved to be every bit a starter in the NFL. Thoughhe wont be cheap, per se, he also wont break the bank the way Kevin Zeitler and T.J. Lang will. As a full-time starting guard, hell be a reliable pass blocker and a solid blocker in the running game. He just needs an opportunity. A team like the Jaguars would benefit from adding Leary to itsline.The Texans are loaded on the defensive line, from Jadeveon Clowney to J.J. Watt. Simon has seen his snaps limited a bit as a result, but he can rush the passer and provide a boost as an outside linebacker. Hes not big enough to be a full-time defensive end, but in sub-packages he can certainly get into a three-point stance and get after the QB.Ateam looking to add a veteran quarterback at a low cost  *cough* the Jets  should give Hoyer a close look. He started five games for the Bears this past season before breaking his arm, throwing for 1,445 yards, six touchdowns and no interceptions. Its the second straight year hes played relatively well in spot duty, proving he can be a reliable backup for some team out there. He played on a one-year, $2 million deal in Chicago, and while hell likely get more than that this offseason, he wont be terribly expensive.Doyle had a good season with the Colts in 2016, catching 59 passes for 584 yards and five touchdowns. He wont make as much as Martellus Bennett in free agency, which is why hell be a good bargain. For someone like the Giants or Jets who need a pass-catching tight end, Doyle would be a nice addition at a relatively low cost. Hes not a great blocker, but hes good enough to hold up at the line of scrimmage.Because the Patriots are so deep at safety, Harmon never really got an opportunity to play meaningful snaps. When he has, though, hes made an impact. In four seasons (just 12 starts), Harmon picked off seven passes in his role as a center field safety. He has good range and ball skills to eliminate plays over the top, and he figures to get even better as his role increases. With Eric Berry and Tony Jefferson the top safeties available, Harmon is a good second-tier guy.Webster played only 59 snaps this past season, but that was because he was blocked on the depth chart by the strongest cast of starting cornerbacks in the NFL. Hes been forced to resort to being a special teams contributor, but by changing teams this offseason, hell be given a much bigger role. The former third-round pick has talent, which he showed as a rookie in 2013 -- he just needs an opportunity. He wont get that behind Aqib Talib, Chris Harris Jr. and Bradley Roby, which is why hes bound to leave Denver.Jackson is one of the top big-play receivers in the league, and has been for years. Some teams may be turned away by his age, but his skills havent deteriorated much at all. He can still step in right away and completely change an offense by providing it with a guy who can blow the top off of a defense, draw safeties deep down the field and open up underneath routes for other receivers. That alone makes him a valuable addition, even if he only catches 55 passes. The threat to score anywhere on the field is huge.Hyde isnt often discussed among the top free agent DBs but he deserves to have his name mentioned. A Swiss army knife in the secondary, Hyde can do it all: play center field, cover the slot, move down into the box, blitz the quarterback. There isnt much he cant do on the football field, and hes a valuable special teams guy who can return punts and kickoffs. Oh, and he just turned 26 years old.
Use of this website (including any and all parts and components) constitutes your acceptance of these All the talk on Twitter today is about the Nicki Minaj-Remy Ma beef, so that got us thinking about the biggest and baddest NBA beefs of 2017. It seems like there's been one every week. But which beef was the biggest? Who had the most savage burn and who got Ethered?, shouting, You cant get no farewell tour, they dont love you like that!  You thought you was Kobe?" The Warriors then proceeded to erase an 18-point deficit and beat the Clippers for the 10th straight time. Pierce and the Clippers. Though Draymond has a long way to go to become the player Pierce was, Pierce has an equally long way to go to become the trash talker Draymond is. Another 3-1 Warriors dig? Paul, your Clips have never even made the Finals.After Phil dissed LeBron's "posse" earlier this season, Melo questioned why he was talking about another team's players, so Phil turned his attention back to subtweeting his star player. Melo, meanwhile, continuesrolling his eyes hard. Definitely not Melo. Phil's "Michael Graham" reference went right over most people's heads, as do most ofPhil's references.," while the rest of us just called it the worst trade in franchise history. And while Boogie never was on his best behavior, Vlade Divac always said Sacramento wanted him to stay. Then they basically gave him away.As beefs go, a (perpetually) pissed-off player trashing his old team for being two-faced is about as common in the NBA as bad trades.This was late December, but it makes the list on the strength of sheer pettiness. Karl trashed a number of his former players, including Kenyon Martin, in his autobriography "Furious George"  blaming their immaturity on them not having fathers, among other things. Martinthenblasted Karl, calling him an "awful and coward ass coach," and other players dismissed the tell-all as an attempt to stay relevant.And that about covers it. Though Karl's willingness to make himself unhireable just so he can sell some books and settle some grudges is pretty wild.Rondo started by beefing with coach Fred Hoiberg after being benched, then called out Bulls stars Dwyane Wade and Jimmy Butler after they criticized their teammates' effort in a loss. Rondo's rant claimed his old Celtics captains would "never go to the media" ..."didn't take days off" ..."didn't care about their numbers" ... andthey "played for the team." Strong stuffbut amonth later, all of them still are in Chicago.Rondo's notorious for beefingwith his coaches, but bringing it to the best players on the team and doing it by comparing them to his Big Three in Boston, was something special.The rift between these two since Durant left OKC for the Warriors has gotten the most publicity and provided some entertaining moments: a cupcake craze, wild Westbrook costumes, a passionate discussion of Fashion Week, and even some on-court chirping between the two. But we're still waiting for one of them to trash the other in even the most ordinary way.To be fair, Barkley brings it to everybody and has been doing it for years. But when Charles chided LeBron for asking for more help, James called him "a hater", then aired his dirty laundry. "I'm not going to let him disrespect my legacy like that," James told ESPN. "I'm not the one who threw somebody through a window. I never spit on a kid. I never had unpaid debt in Las Vegas. I never said, 'I'm not a role model.' I never showed up to All-Star Weekend on Sunday because I was in Vegas all weekend partying."Yup, years' worth of beef paid back right there. Anyone could've done it, but being that it was the King, we award bonus points.: "Shaq was a (expletive)free-throw shooter. He missed dunks, he airballed free throws, he couldn't shoot outside the paint. He was bigger than everybody. He didn't have any skills."Yes, KD really said that in defense of JaVale McGee. If this becames Shaq vs. KD, it could challenge for No. 1.This beef over Barnes' ex-wifehas been cooking since they tussled in 2015, and Fisher told Bleacher Report in January:"If the worst thing someone has to say about me is that I'm now going out with a woman who used to be married to this guy I worked with for a yearsix years ago  Cool." Barnes had the last word, though, with this posted comment:"He sound real tough on here, didn't sound like that when he was running around my house screaming & pleading."This one may only be simmering on a back burner, but the fact that Barnes once drove 95 miles to throw punches at Fisher makes this an enduring beef.Oakleyhas been outspoken against his old teamand especially owner James Dolan for years. And when Oakley showed up to a game at MSG earlier this month, security promptly gave him the bum's rush, then the Knicks' PR put out a character-assassinating statement, which Dolan doubled down on in an interview in which he announced Oakley was banned from MSG for life.
Use of this website (including any and all parts and components) constitutes your acceptance of these ,as part of multiple investigations that have led to 21 NCAA violations, many wondered if there would be an exodus of players from Oxford.While its untold how many  if any  players will leave the program, there isone key player who is staying put: Quarterback Shea Patterson.The soon-to-be sophomore, whostarted the final three games in 2016 after an injury to Chad Kelly, took to Twitter on Saturday, to quiet any rumors of his departure.20 is ready to go..I love my school, coaches, teammates and our fans and I can't wait for the 2017 season together! Let's go! For starters, Patterson is a superb talent. Coming out of high school he was a consensus five-star player, Coach Hugh Freeze went so far as to admit how the looming NCAA investigation had hurt recruiting efforts. It is totally understandable why the ban would be a turnoff.And no one could have blamed Patterson if he decided to leave.Remember, former five-star quarterback Jarrett Stidham announced he was leaving Baylor last year after Art Briles was fired, and other players have left other schools (Penn State, USC) when NCAA sanctions hit and bowl bans were handed out. While Ole Miss obviously self-imposed its ban (NCAA punishment awaits) it would have been easy for Patterson to start over elsewhere.
Use of this website (including any and all parts and components) constitutes your acceptance of these Ryan Reed won Saturdays season-opening Powershares QQQ 300 NASCAR XFINITY Series race at Daytona International Speedway, surviving a day filled with calamity.Reed, an XFINITY regular, held off Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series drivers Kasey Kahne, Austin Dillon and Brad Keselowski in an overtime finish to win in his No. 16 Roush Fenway Racing Ford.It was a stunning victory for Reed, who has Type 1 diabetes and once was told by doctors when he was 17 years old that he would never race again. His only other career XFINITY win came in this same race two years ago.I know so many people told me my first win here was inspirational, a jubilant Reed, now 23, told FOX Sports in Victory Lane. That drove me to try to get back to Victory Lane here.Kahne finished second, with Austin Dillon, Keselowski and XFINITY regular Brendan Gaughan rounding out the top five.There were 10 cautions, with the last coming with three laps to go to set up a green-white-checkered overtime finish.Virtually all of the drivers seemed to have to battle to keep their cars under them in the first XFINITY race under the new three-stage format, with other new rules that also took away downforce from the cars also in play for the first time.The next-to-last caution came with 16 to go and taking out top contender Elliott Sadler, among others. Sadler won the first two stages of the event and led a race-high total of 40 laps before the accident that was just one of three huge ones on the day as the race lasted well over three hours.The first came aftera restart on Lap 23 following a caution, Scott Lagasse Jr. mistimed a bump draft on Tyler Reddick in front of him, sending Reddick sideways and into the heart of the field. Getting the worst of the multi-car wreck were Spencer Gallagher and Blake Koch  but they were far from alone.All told, 19 cars were involved in the incident  just one short of half the field. It brought out a red flag, halting the action for 18 minutes and 22 seconds.Under NASCARs new procedures, cars that couldnt be driven back to the pits were eliminated from the race.One of the drivers taken out was Cole Custer, who was making his first start in the new Stewart-Haas Racing XFINITY team.Just four laps after the long red-flag delay to clean up the first huge wreck and a few laps of caution, another violent, 12-car wreck followed.On Lap 29, the No. 21 Richard Childress Racing Chevrolet of Daniel Hemric appeared to drift ever so slightly up the track as it went into Turn 3  clipping the left rear quarter-panel of the No. 7 JR Motorsports Chevy of Justin Allgaier in the process.That sent Allgaiers car sideways into high-speed traffic, setting off a chain reaction of calamity. Among the additional collateral damage: the cars of Erik Jones, Daniel Suarez, Darrell Wallace Jr., Brandon Jones, Chris Cockrum, Harrison Rhodes, Brandon Hightower, Matt Tifft, Scott Lagasse Jr. and Blake Koch.Hemric told FOX Sports that he thought his car might have slipped in some of the Speedy-Dry and oil residue that was still left on the track from the wreck just a few laps earlier. But Suarez had another idea about what might have contributed to the unexpected melee.I feel like we were racing too hard. It was too early, Suarez said. I dont really know what happened exactly.  I feel like we have to be a little bit smarter than that. I just feel like its a long race and we should be a little bit more smart.Sadler won the first two stages, each lasting 30 laps. He took the second one under caution after yet another accident on Lap 59, when Brad Keselowski badly misjudged a bump-draft attempt on Brennan Poole and sent Poole into the outside wall, where Pooles No. 48 car took a secondary hit from the No. 11 of Blake Koch.With 40 laps to go, Sadler was one of only 10 cars in the original 40-car field that had escaped some kind of damage. That changed soon enough as his night ended on the wreck with 16 to go that ended up involving a total of 16 cars.I dont know how it look from the stands or on TV, said Reed, but from my point of view, it was a lot of fun.
Use of this website (including any and all parts and components) constitutes your acceptance of these Ryan Reed survived what was a crash fest in Saturdays NASCAR XFINITY Series Powershares QQQ 300 at Daytona International Speedway.
Use of this website (including any and all parts and components) constitutes your acceptance of these Baylor Lady Bears head coach Kim Mulkey nabbed her 500th career win with a win over Texas Tech 86-48 Saturday in Waco.But it was thehead coachs postgame wordsthat caught the medias attention after she spokeout against the negative coverage the university has received in the wake of the sexual assault allegations against both the school and its football program.If someones around you and they ever say, `I will never send my daughter to Baylor. You knock them right in the face, Mulkey said.Because these kids are on this campus. I work here. My daughter went to school here and its the damn best school in America.Mulkey addressed her comments againduringthe postgame press conference to further explain her comment.Im just tired of hearing it. Im tired of people talking on it on a national scale that dont know what theyre talking about, she said. If they didnt sit in those meetings and they werent a part of the investigation, youre repeating things that you heard. Its over. Its done. This is a great institution, and I would send my daughter here, and I would pay for anyone elses daughter to come here. I work here every day. Im in the know. And Im tired of hearing it. This is a great institution. The problems that we have at Baylor are no different than the problems at any other school in America. Period. Move on. Find another story to write.that atleast 31 Baylor football players committed at least 52 acts of rape over a four year period starting in 2011.
Use of this website (including any and all parts and components) constitutes your acceptance of these Now less than a day away from the 59th annual Daytona 500, we finish our hour-by-hour countdown by looking back at Dale Earnhardts triumph in 1998.After Victory Lane eluded Earnhardt in the Great American Race for 20 years, The Intimidator finally earned the Harley J. Earl Trophy.
Use of this website (including any and all parts and components) constitutes your acceptance of these Despite reported interest from teams other than the defending champions, Deron Williams officially cleared waivers on Saturday.With the Cleveland Cavaliers now free to sign Williamsas Kyrie Irvings backup, the former Dallas Mavericks point guard reportedly informed the Cavs he will join the team on Monday.The Utah Jazz selected Williams with the No. 3 overall pick in the 2005 Draft. For a few years, he was considered on the same level as the likes of Chris Paul and Tony Parker. A falling out in Utah led to a trade to the Nets, and Williams never reached that same level again.The Cavaliers wouldntexpect the 32-year-old Williams to lead them to the Finals, though. Theysimply need someone to take some of the playmaking burden away from LeBron Jamesand Kyrie Irving, and Williams is perfect for that role.Cleveland also hopes to add 2015 NBA champion Andrew Bogut after the Mavericks traded the big man to the Philadelphia 76ers ahead of Thursdays deadline. The Sixers are expected to buy out his contract this week.Adding Williams and Bogut could pull the Cavaliers even with the Warriors, as FOX Sports NBA analyst Chris Broussard argued on Fridays episode of FS1s UndisputedWhile Golden State is still the more talented team, Clevelands depth will bean issue for the Warriors.