google-news
It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.Trump announced his decision on Twitter late Saturday afternoon. The dinner is scheduled for April 29.I will not be attending the White House Correspondents' Association Dinner this year. Please wish everyone well and have a great evening!Shortly after Trumps tweet, the president of the White House Correspondents Association, which sponsors theannual event, said in an email that the dinner would take place even without Trumps attendance.[The dinner] has been and will continue to be a celebration of the First Amendment and the important role played by an independent news media in a healthy republic, said Jeff Mason, WHCA president. We look forward to shining a spotlight at the dinner on some of the best political journalism of the past year and recognizing the promising students who represent the next generation of our profession.amidhis increasingly fraught relationship with the press. Throughout his campaign, Trump regularly lashed out at the press, singling out news outletsfor being dishonest and at one point . Sincehis election, he has accused certain media outlets of publishing fake news. Earlier this month, the tense relationship reached a boil when Trump called the media  earlier this month saying the dinner would take place. Vanity Fair, the New Yorker and Bloomberg canceled their parties, which had usually drawn celebrities. Comedian  on the same night for journalists and non-irritating celebrities from around the world. (Itstentative name: Not the White House Correspondents Dinner.)Questions about whether the dinner was appropriate existed before Trump took office. The event is an annual gathering of journalists and the people they cover, typically headlined by the sitting president. The White House Correspondents Associationawards $100,000 in scholarships at its annual dinner, according to its website, and recently started a mentoring program that pairs working journalists with journalism students.The annual dinner began in 1921, and Calvin Coolidge became the first president to attend the dinner in 1924. In 1978, Jimmy Carter declined to attend, citing exhaustion. First lady Rosalynn Carter and Vice President Walter Mondale also didnt show up that year, In 1981, President Ronald Reagan managed to deliver remarks by phone even though he was at Camp David recovering from an assassination attempt.If I could give you just one little bit of advice, when somebody tells you to get in a car quick, do it, In 2011, then-president Barack Obama roasted Trump at the dinner  five minutes of jokes directed at the man who had raised questions about whether Obama was born in the United States.No one is happier, no one is prouder to put this birth certificate matter to rest than the Donald, said Obama, who ultimately released his birth certificate. Thats because he can finally get back to focusing on the issues that matter, like: Did we fake the moon landing? What really happened in Roswell? And where are Biggie and Tupac?All kidding aside, obviously, we all know about your credentials and breadth of experience, Obama said. For example, no seriously, just recently in an episode of Celebrity Apprentice, at the steakhouse, the mens cooking team did not impress the judges from Omaha Steaks. And there was a lot of blame to go around but you, Mr. Trump, recognized that the problem was a lack of leadership and so ultimately you didnt blame Little John or Meatloaf  you fired Gary Busey. And these are the kinds of decisions that would keep me up at night. Well-handled, sir. Well-handled.Obama ended his roast talking about the change a President Donald Trump would bring to the White House.Then he flashed a picture of the then-hypothetical Trump White house, emblazoned with pink neon and gold columns, with bikini-clad women relaxing in the fountain outside.SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors arent staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.Former labor secretary Thomas Perez was elected the first Latino chair of the Democratic National Committee on Saturday, narrowly defeating Rep. Keith Ellison (D-Minn.) at the end of a contentious battle over the fate of the beleaguered party in the age of President Trump.Perezs victory concluded the first contested race for the DNC leadership since 1985, a contest the party had extended by a month to allow more debate. It put in place the Democratic leadership that will navigate thousands of state and local elections  where the party hopes to reverse the losses of the past six years  and a 2020 presidential race that could divide the party again.Ellisons defeat was a blow to the partys liberal wing, personified by activists, labor leaders and organizers, many of whom had supported the presidential bid of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and had come to Atlanta to cheer Ellison on. Many of them warned that by picking Perez, the party was alienating the growing resistance that has organized against Trump.The race was close enough that it required a second round of balloting, with Perez winning 235 of 435 votes cast. With tensions still high as the result was announced, nine Ellison supporters chanted Party for the people, not big money! and stormed out of the room.Someday, theyre going to study this era of American history, Perez said after his win. Theyre going to ask the question of all of us: Where were you in 2017 when we had the worst president in the history of the United States? We will be able to say that the Democratic Party led the resistance and made sure this was a one-term president.Onstage, Perez gave Ellison the symbolic role of deputy party chair, and the Minnesota congressman gave a short speech asking his supporters to stay with the party and avoid recriminations.Hillary Clinton, the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee, tweeted her support for both Perez and Ellison as representatives of a unified party, while former president Barack Obama congratulated my friend Perez in a statement.I know that Tom Perez will unite us under that banner of opportunity, and lay the groundwork for a new generation of Democratic leadership for this big, bold, inclusive, dynamic America we love so much, Obama said.Sanders, who had supported Ellison, said in a statement that it was imperative that Tom understands that the same-old, same-old is not working and that we must open the doors of the party to working people and young people in a way that has never been done before.Trump, in classic fashion, responded to the election by simultaneously congratulating and belittling Perez in a tweet: I could not be happier for him, or for the Republican Party!The vote itself was tense. On Friday night, Democrats gathered at a downtown Westin hotel here in Atlanta to meet, drink and lobby for votes, and the Ellison campaign  along with allies of South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg, a third candidate  battled rumors that Perez might already have locked up the votes he needed.But by Saturday morning, it was clear that the race was up for grabs. Buttigieg used his nomination speech to quit the race, endorsing no candidate. As most of the 439 DNC members present cast their votes  eight eligible members did not attend  several DNC members got a text from the Ellison camp saying the congressman was grateful to have the support of Mayor Buttigieg, an endorsement that the mayor denied.In the first round of balloting, Perez won 213.5 votes to 200 for Ellison, 12 for Idaho Democratic Party Executive Director Sally Boynton Brown, 0.5 for Democratic strategist Jehmu Greene and one for Buttigieg in the first round of balloting. Greene endorsed Perez, while two fringe candidates who had won no votes backed Ellison. Members who are abroad get half a vote.Perezs victory did not represent a Democratic shift to the right. On key issues, Perezs platform mostly resembled Ellisons. Perez promised to refocus on small donors and online fundraising; Ellison set a goal for low-dollar contributions from everyday Americans [to] account for 33percent of revenue. Ellison called for an Innovation Hub in Silicon Valley; Perez promoted DNC fellowships to encourage developers, programmers, data scientists, [and] engineers.While Perez and Ellison praised each other personally, the race was defined for outsiders by Sanderss support of the Minnesota lawmaker. Ellison was one of the few members of Congress who had backed Sanders for president. He billed himself as the unity candidate who would keep Sanderss restive supporters in the party while embracing those who had backed Clinton.In the first weeks after Ellison declared his candidacy, the strategy seemed to be working, despite some hiccups. Labor unions that had endorsed Clinton, such as the American Federation of Teachers and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, got behind Ellison.Howard Dean, the most successful DNC chair in modern party history, dropped his plans to run again when Ellison said he would resign from Congress if elected to the full-time job. Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), who had frequently clashed with Dean over strategy and investments, endorsed Ellison and defended the first Muslim member of Congress against charges of anti-Semitism.But veterans of the Obama administration, where Perez had been a popular liberal force, encouraged the former labor secretary to run  and starting Dec.15, he did. In progressive media, the race was frequently covered as a clash between the establishment and the revolution that had been proved right by the 2016 election. That was not how most DNC members chose to see it. In public forums, including the final one broadcast on CNN, Ellison and Perez declined to criticize each other. While progressive media outlets accused Perez of protecting the partys consultant class, DNC members who broke for Perez said that he had convinced them that he knew what state parties needed.Tom seemed to have a better handle on the job, said Kathy Sullivan, a former chair of New Hampshires Democratic Party, who endorsed Perez after current New Hampshire state chair Ray Buckley quit the race.Perez was also helped by a string of endorsements from Obama administration veterans  although, as Ellison backers noticed, he did not win any high-profile supporters of Sanderss to compete with Ellisons endorsements from Clintonites. The Feb.1 endorsement of Perez by former vice president Joe Biden, one of the partys most beloved figures, prompted Sanders to criticize Perez for the first time.Do we stay with a failed status-quo approach or do we go forward with a fundamental restructuring of the Democratic Party? Sanders asked in a statement after Bidens endorsement. I say we go forward and create a grassroots party which speaks for working people and is prepared to stand up to the top one percent. Most of the DNCs membership  just 39 of whom had backed Sanders for president in 2016  did not view the contest as a stark ideological clash. Sanders supporters, including Ellison, had largely succeeded in moving the partys platform to the left. In interviews, some acknowledged that there would be walkouts by Sanders die-hards in their states, but they argued that the daily outrages around Trump might bring them back into the process.That confidence was on display Saturday before the vote for chairman. DNC members debated whether to strike language from Californias Christine Pelosi, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosis daughter, that would have restored a ban on corporate donations to the DNC. The prohibition was quietly rolled back during the controversial tenure of the previous elected DNC chair, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.)This resolution has nothing to do with nonprofit organizations, said Larry Cohen, a former president of the Communications Workers of America who backed Sanders in 2016. This is to send a message, loud and clear, that the DNC itself  not candidates, not state parties  will restore the ban that President Obama put into effect.When the language was struck, a few of the activists who had come to cheer Ellison  including members of National Nurses United, Progressive Democrats of America and Democratic Socialists of America  started a brief chant.SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors arent staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.Newly minted Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt on Saturday spoke of an "aggressive" agenda of regulatory rollbacks, criticizing the previous Obama administration for being so focused on climate change."In a question-and-answer session at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) in Maryland, Pruitt blamed the Obama administration for failing to tackle more state-based environmental issues, such as a decades-old water quality issues in Oregon tied to a nuclear facility in Washington.What has happened over the past several years, is the previous administration was so focused on climate change and so focused on CO2 that some of those other priorities were left behind, he said.We as Republicans dont have anything to be apologetic about with respect to the environment  nothing, he added. We have always believed that you can grow jobs, grow an economy, while also doing what? Being a good steward of the environment.Pruitt was confirmed to lead the EPA last week and his first day was Tuesday. His appearance at the political forum underscored the Trump administration's embrace of the conference this week.President Trump spoke at the conservative confab Friday, while Vice President Pence, White House chief of staff and chief strategist Reince Priebus and Steve Bannon, as well as senior Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway, also appeared.In his previous job as Oklahoma attorney general, Pruitt sued the EPA more than a dozen times and has close ties to the fossil fuel industry.At CPAC on Saturday, Pruitt reiterated his call to dismantle some of Obamas environment regulations in a very aggressive way, and said that his first rollbacks could come next week.I think there are some regulations that in the near term need to be rolled back in a very aggressive way, he said. And I think maybe next week, you may be hearing about some of those, as it relates to some of these key issues.The contents of this site are 2017 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.The Trump administration has enlisted senior members of the intelligence community and Congress in efforts to counter news stories about Trump associates ties to Russia, a politically charged issue that has been under Acting at the behest of the White House, the officials made calls to news organizations last week in attempts to challenge stories about alleged contacts between members of President Trumps campaign team and Russian intelligence operatives, U.S. officials said.The calls were orchestrated by the White House after unsuccessful attempts by the administration to get senior FBI officials to speak with news organizations and dispute the accuracy of stories on the alleged contacts with Russia.The White House on Friday acknowledged those interactions with the FBI but did not disclose that it then turned to other officials who agreed to do what the FBI would not  participate in White House-arranged calls with news organizations, including The Washington Post. Two of those officials spoke on the condition of anonymity  a practice President Trump has condemned.The officials broadly dismissed Trump associates contacts with Russia as infrequent and inconsequential. But the officials would not answer substantive questions about the issue, and their comments were not published by The Post and do not appear to have been reported elsewhere.White House spokesman Sean Spicer confirmed that the White House communicated with officials with the aim of contesting reporting on Russia, but maintained that the administration did nothing improper. When informed by the FBI that [the Russia-related reporting] was false, we told reporters who else they should contact to corroborate the FBIs version of the story, he said. The decision to involve those officials could be perceived as threatening the independence of U.S. spy agencies that are supposed to remain insulated from partisan issues, as well as undercutting the credibility of ongoing . Those officials saw their involvement as an attempt to correct coverage they believed to be erroneous.The effort also involved senior lawmakers with access to classified intelligence about Russia, including Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), the chairmen of the Senate and House intelligence committees. A spokesman for Nunes said that he had already begun speaking to reporters to challenge the story and that, at the request of a White House communications aide, Chairman Nunes then spoke to an additionalreporter and delivered the same message. In an interview, Burr acknowledged that he had conversations about Russia-related news reports with the White House and engaged with news organizations to dispute articles by the New York Times and CNN that alleged repeated or constant contact between Trump campaign members and Russian intelligence operatives.Ive had those conversations, Burr said, adding that he regarded the contacts as appropriate provided that I felt I had something to share that didnt breach my responsibilities to the committee in an ongoing investigation.The administrations push against the Russia coverage intensified Sunday when White House Chief of Staff  said in television interviews that he had been authorized by the top levels of the intelligence community to denounce reports on Trump campaign contacts with Russia as false.Priebuss denunciations ranged from calling the articles overstated to saying they were complete garbage.Administration officials said that Priebuss comments had been cleared by FBI Director James B. Comey and Deputy Director Andrew McCabe. In doing so, the FBIs leadership would appear to have been drawing a distinction between authorizing comments by a White House official and addressing the matter themselves. Mark Warner, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said he called CIA Director Mike Pompeo and Burr to express his grave concerns about what this means for the independence of the investigation.I am consulting with members of the Intelligence Committee to determine an appropriate course of action so we can ensure that the American people get the thorough, impartial investigation that they deserve, free from White House interference, Warner said in a statement Friday night.Rep. Adam B. Schiff (Calif.), the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, issued a statement Friday evening saying that if the White House contrived to have intelligence officials contradict unfavorable news reports, this represents a new and even more grave threat to the independence of the intelligence community.Former intelligence officials expressed concern over the blurring of lines between intelligence and politics, with some recalling Republican accusations that the Obama administration had twisted intelligence in its accounts of the 2012 attacks on U.S. facilities in Benghazi, Libya.I doubt that there was any enthusiasm from the intelligence leadership to get involved in this in the first place, former CIA director Michael Hayden said, noting that it seemed unlikely that Priebuss bluntly worded denials were consistent with the precise language favored by intelligence analysts.Think Benghazi here, Hayden said in an interview by email. This is what happens when the intel guys are leaned on for the narrative of the political speakers. The latter have different rules, words, purposes. Getting intel into that mix always ends unhappily, [and] it looks like we just did.The Trump administrations actions reflect its level of concern about coverage of its relationship with Russia. Trump has continued to praise Russian President Vladimir Putin, even after U.S. intelligence agencies concluded that Trump has also repeatedly disparaged the intelligence agencies that his administration last week turned to for support. Shortly before taking office, Trump accused U.S. spy agencies of a  to publicly knock down media reports about ties between Trump associates and Russian intelligence.Administration officials disputed the account, saying that rather than soliciting FBI feedback, Priebus had been pulled aside by McCabe on the morning of Feb.15 and told, I want you to know that the New York Times story is BS.White House officials declined to comment on the administrations subsequent effort to enlist other government officials and would not agree to allow the identification of the intelligence officials who had spoken to The Post last week. In separate calls, those individuals insisted on being identified only as a senior intelligence official in the Trump administration and a senior member of the intelligence community.In a brief interview on the night of Feb.15, the senior intelligence official said that the suggestion that there was frequent contact between Russians and Trump associates was false, describing any conversations as sporadic, limited and based on Russias interest in building a relationship with the future Trump administration rather than shaping the 2016 presidential race.The senior intelligence official appeared to be referring to contacts between Trumps designated national security adviser, Michael Flynn, and Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak before Trump was sworn in as president. Flynn was forced out of his job earlier this month after The Post reported that  against Russia with Kislyak and then misled Trump administration officials about the nature of his contacts.Officials at the CIA and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence declined to comment on whether senior officials at those agencies had discussed Russia coverage with the White House or been involved in efforts to refute stories on that subject.CIA Director Mike Pompeo is the senior-most intelligence official in the administration, with former senator Dan Coats (R-Ind.) still awaiting confirmation as director of national intelligence. in the House investigation of Benghazi, which centered on accusations that the Obama administration had twisted intelligence about the attacks for political purposes.It is not unusual for CIA leaders to have contact with news organizations, particularly about global issues such as terrorism or to contest news accounts of CIA operations. But involving the agency on alleged Trump campaign ties to Russia could be problematic.The CIA is not in charge of the investigation. Given the history of domestic espionage abuses in the United States, CIA officials are typically averse to being drawn into matters that involve U.S. citizens or might make the agency vulnerable to charges that it is politicizing intelligence.A U.S. intelligence official declined to discuss any Pompeo involvement except to say that he was not involved in drafting or approving statements for public use by the White House this past weekend on alleged Russian contacts.Whether there were such contacts remains a major point of contention. Beyond Flynn, the investigation has focused on other figures including , Trumps former campaign chairman, who had previously served as a paid political adviser to the Putin-backed president of Ukraine.U.S. intelligence reports cite multiple contacts between members of Trumps team and Russians with links to the Kremlin, during the campaign and afterward, according to officials who have seen them. Such reports were based on intercepted Russian communications and other sources, the officials said. Nunes, who served as a member of Trumps transition team, has resisted calls for his House committee to investigate alleged contacts between Trump associates and Russia. He said in an interview that after months of investigations, U.S. authorities have turned up no evidence of such contacts.delivery-guy contact, Nunes said, appearing to rule out even unwitting contact between Trump officials and Russian agents. Investigators, Nunes said, dont even have a lead.SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors arent staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in."Initial reports show so far about a dozen people are in critical condition," police spokeswoman Ambria Washington said. "That number could increase as the investigation is ongoing." Police Superintendent Michael Harrison later said 21 people, including a police officer, were taken to seven hospitals.Greg McNeely said he was watching the parade when a pickup truck sped through the intersection. He said he heard three crashes then a fourth loud crash, and saw the truck had come to rest against a garbage bin. Several people were pinned between the truck and the garbage bin or beneath the truck.Another witness, L.A. Morgan of Chicago, said the truck hit several vehicles and people, turned sideways then crashed into the garbage bin. She said she could hear the driver cursing through the truck's open window. Spectators began screaming and running.Aftermath photos of Endymion accident taken from twenty feet away from where the car crashed of front of us. Scary  Orleans & Carrollton - at least a dozen are critical after someone slammed their vehicle into the Endymion crowd.  parade route. Police said they think the gun was accidentally fired inside a portable toilet, wounding a man outside, but no immediate arrests were made.
            The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used,
            except with the prior written permission of NOLA Media Group.WASHINGTON  President Trump turned the power of the White House against the news media on Friday, escalating his attacks on journalists as the enemy of the people and berating members of his own In a speech to the Conservative Political Action Conference, Mr. Trump criticized as fake news organizations that publish anonymously sourced reports that reflect poorly on him. And in a series of Twitter posts, he assailed the F.B.I. as a dangerously porous agency, condemning unauthorized revelations of classified information from within its ranks and calling for an immediate hunt for leakers.Hours after the speech, as if to demonstrate Mr. Trumps determination to punish reporters whose coverage he dislikes, Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, barred journalists from The New York Times and several other news organizations from attending his daily briefing, a highly unusual breach of relations between the White House and its press corps.Mr. Trumps barrage against the news media continued well into Friday night. FAKE NEWS media knowingly doesnt tell the truth, The moves underscored the degree to which Mr. Trump and members of his inner circle are eager to use the prerogatives of the presidency to undercut those who scrutinize him, dismissing negative stories as lies and confining press access at the White House to a few chosen news organizations considered friendly. The Trump White House has also vowed new efforts to punish leakers. by CNN on Thursday night that a White House official had asked the F.B.I. to rebut a New York Times article last week detailing contacts between Mr. Trumps associates and Russian intelligence officials. The report asserted that a senior White House official had called top leaders at the F.B.I. to request that they contact reporters to dispute the Timess account.The fake news doesnt tell the truth, Mr. Trump said to the delight of the conservatives packed into the main ballroom at the Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center just south of Washington. It doesnt represent the people, it doesnt and never will represent the people, and were going to do something about it.In the West Wing less than three hours later, the consequences were becoming clear. Mr. Spicer told a handpicked group of reporters in a briefing in his spacious office that the White House would relentlessly counter coverage it considered inaccurate.Were going to aggressively push back, he said, according to a recording of the session provided by a reporter who was allowed to attend. Were just not going to sit back and let, you know, false narratives, false stories, inaccurate facts get out there.Reporters from The Times, BuzzFeed News, CNN, The Los Angeles Times, Politico, the BBC and The Huffington Post were among those shut out of the briefing. Aides to Mr. Spicer admitted only reporters from a group of news organizations that, the White House said, had been previously confirmed.Those organizations included Breitbart News, the One America News Network and The Washington Times, all with conservative leanings. Journalists from ABC, CBS, The Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg and Fox News also attended.Reporters from The Associated Press and Time magazine, who were set to be allowed in, chose not to attend the briefing in protest of the White Houses actions. The Washington Post did not send a reporter to the session.A tabloid darling back when he was running a close-knit real estate and branding business in New York, President Trump has found himself subsumed and increasingly infuriated by a national media that regularly confronts him with leaks and criticisms.Nothing like this has ever happened at the White House in our long history of covering multiple administrations of different parties, Dean Baquet, the executive editor of The Times, said in a statement. We strongly protest the exclusion of The New York Times and the other news organizations. Free media access to a transparent government is obviously of crucial national interest.Marty Baron, the Posts editor, called Mr. Spicers decision to exclude some news organizations from a scheduled briefing appalling.This is an undemocratic path that the administration is traveling, Mr. Baron said. There is nothing to be gained from the White House restricting the publics access to information.We invited the pool, so everyone was represented, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the deputy White House press secretary, said in an email Friday afternoon, referring to the small group of reporters on hand at the White House each day to follow the president and send reports to the broader press corps. We decided to add a couple of additional people beyond the pool. Nothing more than that.The White House Correspondents Association, which represents the press corps, also protested the decision. But Jeff Mason, the organizations president, pointed out that the White House had provided near-daily briefings and accepted questions from a variety of news outlets since Mr. Trump took office.Were not happy with how things went today, Mr. Mason said in an interview. But its important to keep in mind the context of how things have gone up until now. He added: I dont think that people should rush to judgment to suggest that this is the start of a big crackdown on media access.Still, the Committee to Protect Journalists, which typically advocates press rights in countries with despotic regimes, issued an alarmed statement on Friday about Mr. Trumps escalating language.It is not the job of political leaders to determine how journalists should conduct their work, and sets a terrible example for the rest of the world, said the groups executive director, Joel Simon. The U.S. should be promoting press freedom and access to information.Mr. Trump, in his attack on the news media at the conservative gathering, complained at length about the use of anonymous sources in news stories, charging that some reporters were fabricating unnamed sources to level unfair charges against him.They shouldnt be allowed to use sources unless they use somebodys name, Mr. Trump said. Let their name be put out there.At another point, he said, A few days ago, I called the fake news the enemy of the people because they have no sources  they just make it up. He added that his Those comments came shortly after his own aides had held a briefing for the White House press pool on the condition of anonymity to deny CNNs story suggesting there had been improper contact between the White House and the F.B.I. regarding the Times article on Russian contacts.Later, in the briefing from which the Times was excluded, Mr. Spicer said that it was top F.B.I. officials  first Andrew G. McCabe, the deputy director, and later James B. Comey, the director  who approached Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, the day after the article appeared to say that it was false.Mr. Priebus then asked the two F.B.I. officials what they could do to rebut it publicly. They apologized and said they were unable to issue a statement or otherwise comment on the matter, Mr. Spicer said.They came to us and said the story is not true. We said, Great, could you tell people that? Mr. Spicer said, describing the discussions between Mr. Priebus and F.B.I. officials.The F.B.I. on Friday declined to provide its account of those conversations. On Thursday night an F.B.I. official said that the White House had asked last week for the bureaus help disputing the article, and that senior F.B.I. officials had rejected the request, citing the investigation into Russian efforts to affect the election.The article reported that current and former American officials said that phone records and intercepted calls showed that members of Mr. s 2016 presidential campaign and other Trump associates had repeated contacts with senior Russian intelligence officials in the year before the election. The intercepts alarmed American intelligence and law enforcement agencies, in part because of the amount of contact that was occurring while Mr. Trump was Last week the White House declined to comment on the Times article and referred reporters back to Mr. Spicers previous assertions that Mr. Trumps campaign had no contact with the Russian government.Mr. Spicers small-group Friday session, known as a gaggle, was scheduled as an off-camera event, less formal than his usual briefings that are carried live on cable news. But past administrations have not selected outlets that can attend such sessions.Representatives of the barred news organizations made clear that they believed the White Houses actions were punitive.Apparently this is how they retaliate when you report facts they dont like, CNN said in a statement.Tensions always emerge between an administration and the reporters who cover it, and it is not unusual for a White House to single out groups of journalists for special briefings outside of the daily on-camera question-and-answer session. The Obama White House was harshly criticized by members of the press corps after it tried to exclude Fox News from interviews with top administration officials.But press relations in the Trump White House have taken on a tinderbox dynamic, with journalists and press aides highly suspicious of each others motives.The grass is dry on both sides, said Ari Fleischer, who was press secretary to George W. Bush, so it only takes a very small match to light it on fire.A man has died and two other people were hurt after a man drove into a pedestrian area in Heidelberg, Germany.The attacker, said to have been armed with a knife, was shot, injured and arrested by police in a brief standoff after fleeing the scene on foot. In December an Islamist attacker drove a lorry into a Berlin Christmas market, killing 12 people and injuring 49. In Heidelberg the attacker, described by police as a 35-year-old German "without a migration background", drove what is thought to be a rental car into pedestrians in one of the city's central squares, injuring three people. One of them, a 73-year-old German man, later died in hospital.The attacker then left the car but was tracked down, shot and seriously injured by police near an old swimming pool. Police were unable to confirm local media reports that the attacker was mentally disturbed. He is thought to have acted alone.The two injured people were a 32-year-old Austrian national and a 29-year-old Bosnian woman, police said. Their injuries are said to be minor and they have been discharged from hospital.Malaysia's health minister said Sunday autopsy results suggested a nerve agent caused "very serious paralysis" that killed the exiled half brother of North Korea's leader, as police completed a sweep of the budget terminal where he was poisoned and declared it safe of any toxin.The investigation has unleashed a serious diplomatic fight between Malaysia and North Korea, a prime suspect in the Feb. 13 killing of Kim Jong Nam at Kuala Lumpur's airport. Friday's revelation by Malaysian police that the banned chemical weapon VX nerve agent was used to kill Kim raised the stakes significantly in a case that has broad geopolitical implications.Health Minister Subramaniam Sathasivam said the state chemistry department's finding of the VX toxin confirmed the hospital's autopsy result that suggested a "chemical agent caused very serious paralysis" that led to death "in a very short period of time." The VX agent can lead to death very quickly in high doses, he said.The killing of Kim Jong Nam took place amid crowds of travelers at Kuala Lumpur's airport and appeared to be a well-planned hit. Kim died on the way to a hospital, within hours of the attack.Tens of thousands of passengers have passed through the airport since the apparent assassination was carried out. No areas were cordoned off, and protective measures were not taken. Subramaniam said there have been no reports so far of anyone else being sickened by the toxin.A Hazmat crew checks a stain on the wall at Kuala Lumpur International Airport 2 in Sepang, Malaysia on Sunday, Feb. 26, 2017. Malaysian police order a sweep of Kuala Lumpur airport for toxic chemicals and other hazardous substances following the killing of Kim Jong Nam. (AP Photo/Daniel Chan)
			                    
			                        Late Saturday, however, police said they would begin a sweep of the budget terminal where Kim was attacked to check for traces of VX.The sweep started around 2 a.m. Sunday involving officers from chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear teams, as well as the fire department's hazardous materials unit and the government's atomic energy board. Although VX is not radioactive, police said the radiological team and the atomic energy board were involved as a precaution.Abdul Samah Mat, the police official leading the investigations, said a two-hour sweep by more than a dozen officers in protective gear detected no hazardous material. He said the budget terminal is "free from any form of contamination of hazardous material" and declared it a "safe zone."Earlier Saturday, police warned they would issue an arrest warrant for a North Korean diplomat if he refuses to cooperate with the investigation.Experts say the nerve agent used to kill Kim was almost certainly produced in a sophisticated state weapons laboratory and is banned under an international treaty. But North Korea never signed the treaty, and it has spent decades developing a complex chemical weapons program.Tape blocks the entrance to the main hall of Kuala Lumpur International Airport 2 for the decontamination process in Sepang, Malaysia on Sunday, Feb. 26, 2017. Malaysian police ordered a sweep of Kuala Lumpur airport for toxic chemicals and other hazardous substances following the killing of Kim Jong Nam. (AP Photo/Daniel Chan)
			                    
			                        Kim was not an obvious political threat to his estranged half brother, Kim Jong Un. But he may have been seen as a potential rival in North Korea's dynastic dictatorship, even though he had lived in exile for years. North Korea has denied any role in the attack.Malaysia said earlier that Hyon Kwang Song, a second secretary at the North Korean Embassy in Kuala Lumpur, was wanted for questioning. But authorities acknowledged at the time he has diplomatic immunity and they couldn't compel him to appear.Abdul Samah, the police official, said authorities would give the diplomat reasonable time to come forward. "And if he failed to turn up ... then we will go to the next step by getting a warrant of arrest from the court," he told reporters.Lawyer Sankara Nair, however, noted that diplomats have immunity privileges even in criminal cases. "Police can apply for a warrant, but it can easily be set aside by the embassy," he said.Malaysia hasn't directly accused the North Korean government of being behind the attack, but officials have said four North Korean men provided two women with poison to carry it out.The four men fled Malaysia shortly after the killing, while the women  one from Indonesia and the other Vietnamese  were arrested.On Saturday, representatives from the Indonesian and Vietnamese embassies in Malaysia met with the two women.Indonesia's deputy ambassador Andriano Erwin told reporters that Siti Aisyah said she had been paid the equivalent of $90 for what she believed was a harmless prank. Aisyah, 25, said she had been introduced to people who looked like Japanese or Koreans who asked her to play a prank for a reality show, according to Erwin.Asked if she knew what was on her hands at the time of the attack, Erwin said: "She didn't tell us about that. She only said that it's a kind of oil, baby oil, something like that."Hazmat crews are gathered at the main hall of Kuala Lumpur International Airport 2 in Sepang, Malaysia on Sunday, Feb. 26, 2017. Malaysian police ordered a sweep of Kuala Lumpur airport for toxic chemicals and other hazardous substances following the killing of Kim Jong Nam. (AP Photo/Daniel Chan)
			                    
			                        An odorless chemical with the consistency of motor oil, VX is an extremely powerful poison, with an amount no larger than a few grains of salt enough to kill. It can be inhaled, swallowed or absorbed through the skin. Then, in anywhere from a few seconds to a few hours, it can cause a range of symptoms, from blurred vision to a headache. Enough exposure leads to convulsions, paralysis, respiratory failure and death.The Vietnamese woman, Doan Thi Huong, also thought she was taking part in a prank, Vietnam's foreign ministry said Saturday.In grainy surveillance footage, the women appear to smear something onto Kim's face before walking away in separate directions. Malaysian police said the attackers knew what they were doing and had been trained to go immediately to the bathroom and clean their hands.An antidote, atropine, can be injected after exposure and is carried by medics in war zones where weapons of mass destruction are suspected.Also Saturday, police confirmed that a raid earlier in the week on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur was part of the investigation. Abdul Samah did not specify what authorities found there, but said the items were being tested for traces of any chemicals.This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 2017 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.A senior Republican lawmaker on Friday agreed that a special prosecutor should investigate Russia's alleged interference with the 2016 presidential election.Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) became one of the few Republican representatives to state publicly the needfor an independent investigation into Russia's reported election meddling. This comes as Democrats have increasingly pushed for an investigation intoIn an appearance on HBO's Real Time with Bill Maher, Issa,a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, first told the progressive show host that House and Senate intelligence committees would look into Russia's activities within the special areas they oversee.That was not sufficient for Maher, who pressed Issa formerly the head of the House Oversight Committee  on whether he would have let that slide had similar suspicions arose involving the Democrats. Maher has been a vocal critic of Trump. concluded that hackers with connections to the Russian government targeted the Democratic National Committee and leaked thousands of emails to WikiLeaks in an effort to sway the outcome in Trump's favor.United States intelligence agencies have said they agree with the assessment, and a Russia has denied the accusations, and Trump  who has a history of praising Russian President Vladimir PutinLet's go back to 2012, Maher asked Issa on the show Friday. Say the Russians hacked only Mitt Romney and there was a lot of contact between the Obama administration and Russia. You'd have let that slide?Maher protested, saying there needed to be aspecial prosecutor  and that now-Attorney General Jeff Sessions should recuse himself the same way former Attorney General Loretta Lynch recused herself from an investigation into Hillary Clinton's emails. that the Trump administration tried to enlist intelligence officials to counter news stories about Russia's ties with Trump's associates.Trump's national security adviser, Michael Flynn,  in an independent investigation.Sessions indicated during the confirmation process that he would not recuse himself during any investigations involving Trump.If merely being a supporter of the Presidents during the campaign warranted recusal from involvement in any matter involving [Trump], then most typical presidential appointees would be unable to conduct their duties, Sessions told Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.) in written responses to the Senate Judiciary Committee, On Friday, however, Issa seemed to agree with Maher that Sessions should not be involved in an investigation.You're right, you cannot have somebody, a friend of mine, Jeff Sessions, who was on the campaign and who was an appointee, he said. You're going to need to use the special prosecutor's statute and office.Issa added that it would also be inappropriate for Sessions to pass the investigation on to the deputy attorney general.He then explained, in a lengthy tangent, that Russia needed to be investigated because they are bad people.Here's the reason we're going to have to do it, Bill. There may or may not be fault, but the American people who are beginning to understand that Putin murders his enemies  sometimes right in front of the Kremlin, and then suddenly the cameras don't work there  he's murdered people and taken down [sic] using cyberwarfare in Georgia and Ukraine. This is a bad guy who murders people, who runs a gas station with an economy the size of Italy but is screwing up things all over the world that we've been doing 'working with.' Now, we have to work with them. We don't have to trust them. And we need to investigate their activities and we need to do it because they are bad people.Issa is serving his ninth term in Congress but is likely to face a grueling midterm election in 2018. After a lengthy reelection campaign last year, Most of Issa's appearance on Maher's show Friday focused on efforts to overhaul the health-care system. Issa has long been a vocal advocate of repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act and last week released a draft bill titled the On Tuesday,Issa was accused of skipping out on his constituents when he did not attend, as expected, an emergency town hall on health care in the San Diego area.In response, tweets with the hashtag #WhereIsDarrell began appearing. Another video from the event showed Issa's face attached to a large cardboard cutout of Waldo,the purposely hard-to-spot cartoon character that was the star of a children's book series.When Maher brought up the lawmaker's absence from the town hall, Issa defended himself by saying that he had over 14 separate events open to the public in the last two weeks and that he had spoken to several hundred people who showed up outside his office to protest recently.The reality is is there are not enough town-hall meetings, Issa told Maher. We've gone to tele-town hall.SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors arent staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.PARIS  The usually mild-mannered president of France pointedly reproached President Trump on Saturday after Mr. Trump commented on the dangers of terrorism in Paris, reminding the American leader of a cardinal rule in diplomacy: If you want to keep your friends, dont criticize them in public., the French president, at the opening of an agriculture exposition in Paris. I wouldnt do that to an ally and I would ask that the American president not do that with regard to France.Mr. Hollande was responding to remarks Mr. Trump made on Friday at the Conservative Political Action Conference, in which he implied that Europes open borders had led to the terrorist attacks there.Mr. Trump pinned his assertions on a friend named Jim, who he said had stopped going to Paris because Paris is no longer Paris. Mr. Trump said his friend had stopped traveling to the French capital four or five years ago, which was before the terrorist attacks there occurred.Take a look at whats happening in Germany. Take a look at whats happened in France. Take a look at Nice and Paris, said Mr. Trump, who preceded these comments by saying: We fully understand that national security begins with border security.Mr. Trump continued: I have a friend, hes a very, very substantial guy. He loves the City of Lights, he loves Paris. For years, every year during the summer, he would go to Paris, was automatic with his wife and his family. Hadnt seen him in a while. And I said, Jim, let me ask you a question: Hows Paris doing? Paris? I dont go there anymore. Paris is no longer Paris. That was four years  four or five years hasnt gone there. He wouldnt miss it for anything. Now he doesnt even think in terms of going there. struck the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in 2015, as did the attacks in and around Paris that killed 130 people, including 90 at the Bataclan concert hall. The attack in Nice happened in 2016. drop in 2014. Paris experienced steady increases in tourism from 2010 to 2013, but those came after a  by the Paris regional tourism board, there was another drop in tourism, with 1.5 million fewer visitors, a 4.7 percent decrease from 2015.