hacker-news
While some of the matrix operations that are implemented by hand (such as calculation of covariance matrix) are 
available in numpy I have decided to add these as well to make sure that I understand how the linear algebra is applied.As automation reduces the need for human labor, some Silicon Valley executives think a universal income will be the answer  and the beta test is happening in Kenya. poor, even by the standards of rural Kenya. To get there, you follow a power line along a series of unmarked roads. Eventually, that power line connects to the school at the center of town, the sole building with electricity. Homesteads fan out into the hilly bramble, connected by rugged paths. There is just one working water tap, requiring many local women to gather water from a pit in jerrycans. There is no plumbing, and some families still practice open defecation, lacking the resources to dig a latrine. There arent even oxen strong enough to pull a plow, meaning that most farming is still done by hand. The village is poor enough that it is considered rude to eat in public, which is seen as boasting that you have food.In October, I visited Kennedy Aswan Abagi, the village chief, at his small red-earth home, decorated with posters celebrating the death of Osama bin Laden and the lives of African heroes, including JaKogelo, or the man from Kogelo, as locals refer to former President Barack Obama. Kogelo, where Obamas father was born, is just 20 miles from the village, which lies close to the banks of Lake Victoria. Abagi told me about the day his towns fate changed. It happened during the summer, when field officers from an American nonprofit called GiveDirectly paid a visit, making an unbelievable promise: They wanted to give everyone money, no strings attached. I asked, Why this village? Abagi recalled, but he never got a clear answer, or one that made much sense to him.The villagers had seen Western aid groups come through before, sure, but nearly all of them brought stuff, not money. And because many of these organizations were religious, their gifts came with moral impositions; I was told that one declined to help a young mother whose child was born out of wedlock, for example. With little sense of who would get what and how and from whom and why, rumors blossomed. One villager heard that GiveDirectly would kidnap children. Some thought that the organization was aligned with the Illuminati, or that it would blight the village with giant snakes, or that it performed blood magic. Others heard that the money was coming from Obama himself.But the confusion faded that unseasonably cool morning in October, when a GiveDirectly team returned to explain themselves during a town meeting. Nearly all of the villages 220 people crowded into a blue-and-white tent placed near the school building, watching nervously as 13 strangers, a few of them white, sat on plastic chairs opposite them. Lydia Tala, a Kenyan GiveDirectly staff member, got up to address the group in Dholuo. She spoke at a deliberate pace, awaiting a hum and a nod from the crowd before she moved on: These visitors are from GiveDirectly. GiveDirectly is a nongovernmental organization that is not affiliated with any political party. GiveDirectly is based in the United States. GiveDirectly works with mobile phones. Each person must have his or her own mobile phone, and they must keep their PIN secret. Nobody must involve themselves in criminal activity or terrorism. This went on for nearly two hours. The children were growing restless.Finally, Tala passed the microphone to her colleague, Brian Ouma. People of the village, he said, are you happy?Then he laid out the particulars. Every registered person will receive 2,280 shillings  about $22  each and every month. You hear me? The audience gasped and burst into wild applause. Every person we register here will receive the money, I said  2,280 shillings! Every month. This money, you will get for the next 12 years. How many years?Just like that, with peals of ululation and children breaking into dance in front of the strangers, the whole village was lifted out of extreme poverty. (I have agreed to withhold its name out of concern for the villagers safety.) The nonprofit is in the process of registering roughly 40 more villages with a total of 6,000 adult residents, giving those people a guaranteed, 12-year-long, poverty-ending income. An additional 80 villages, with 11,500 residents all together, will receive a two-year basic income. With this initiative, GiveDirectly  with an office in New York and funded in no small part by Silicon Valley  is starting the worlds first true test of a universal basic income. The idea is perhaps most in vogue in chilly, left-leaning places, among them Canada, Finland, the Netherlands and Scotland. But many economists think it might have the most promise in places with poorer populations, like India and sub-Saharan Africa.GiveDirectly wants to show the world that a basic income is a cheap, scalable way to aid the poorest people on the planet. We have the resources to eliminate extreme poverty this year, Michael Faye, a founder of GiveDirectly, told me. But these resources are often misallocated or wasted. His nonprofit wants to upend incumbent charities, offering major donors a platform to push money to the worlds neediest immediately and practically without cost.What happens in this village has the potential to transform foreign-aid institutions, but its effects might also be felt closer to home. A growing crowd, including many of GiveDirectlys backers in Silicon Valley, are looking at this pilot project not just as a means of charity but also as the groundwork for an argument that a universal basic income might be right for you, me and everyone else around the world too.guaranteed income is a curious piece of intellectual flotsam that has washed ashore several times in the past half-millennium, often during periods of great economic upheaval. In Utopia, published in 1516, Thomas More suggests it as a way to help feudal farmers hurt by the conversion of common land for public use into private land for commercial use. In Agrarian Justice, published in 1797, Thomas Paine supports it for similar reasons, as compensation for the loss of his or her natural inheritance, by the introduction of the system of landed property. It reappears in the writings of French radicals, of Bertrand Russell, of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.Silicon Valley has recently become obsessed with basic income for reasons simultaneously generous and self-interested, as a palliative for the societal turbulence its inventions might unleash. Many technologists believe we are living at the precipice of an artificial-intelligence revolution that could vault humanity into a postwork future. In the past few years, artificially intelligent systems have become proficient at a startling number of tasks, from reading cancer scans to piloting a car to summarizing a sports game to translating prose. Any job that can be broken down into discrete, repeatable tasks  financial analytics, marketing, legal work  could be automated out of existence.In this vision of the future, our economy could turn into a funhouse-mirror version of itself: extreme income and wealth inequality, rising poverty, mass unemployment, a shrinking prime-age labor force. It would be more George Saunders than George Jetson. But what does this all have to do with a small village in Kenya?A universal basic income has thus far lacked what tech folks might call a proof of concept. There have been a handful of experiments, including ones in Canada, India and Namibia. Finland is sending money to unemployed people, and the Dutch city Utrecht is doing a trial run, too. But no experiment has been truly complete, studying what happens when you give a whole community money for an extended period of time  when nobody has to worry where his or her next meal is coming from or fear the loss of a job or the birth of a child.And so, the tech industry is getting behind GiveDirectly and other organizations testing the idea out. Chris Hughes, a Facebook founder and briefly the owner of The New Republic, has started a $10 million, two-year initiative to explore the viability of a basic income. (He has also been a major donor to GiveDirectly.) The research wing of Sam Altmans start-up incubator, Y Combinator, is planning to pass out money to 1,000 families in California and another yet-to-be-determined state. Then there is GiveDirectly itself, which has attracted $24 million in donations for its basic-income effort, including money from founders of Facebook, Instagram, eBay and a number of other Silicon Valley companies. Many donors I spoke with cited their interest in the project as purely philanthropic. But others saw it as a chance to learn more about a universal basic income, a way to prove that it could work and a chance to show people the human face of a hypothetical policy fix.In December, Altman, the 31-year-old president of Y Combinator, spoke at an anti-poverty event hosted by Stanford, the White House and the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, the charitable institution the Facebook billionaire founded with his wife, Priscilla. Altman discussed the potential for basic income to alleviate poverty, but his speech veered back to the dark questions that hang over all this philanthropy: Is Silicon Valley about to put the world out of work? And if so, do technologists owe the world a solution?There have been these moments where we have had these major technology revolutions  the Agricultural Revolution, the Industrial Revolution, for example  that have really changed the world in a big way, Altman said. I think were in the middle or at least on the cusp of another one. a charity, but it speaks in the argot of Silicon Valley. It is a platform, connecting donors and recipients, that prides itself on low overhead and superior analytics. It disdains what it sees as the bloated, expensive, stuck-in-their-ways incumbents that dominate the nonprofit space. And it even has a privileged bootstrapping creation story, beginning with its 20-something founders batting the idea around in Harvard Square academic buildings and scraping together money from friends.The idea for the nonprofit came to Michael Faye and Paul Niehaus, who is now a professor of economics at the University of California, San Diego, when they were graduate students at Harvard. Both were studying development and doing fieldwork overseas, an experience that underlined an Economics 101 lesson: Cash was more valuable to its recipients than the in-kind gifts commonly distributed by aid groups, like food or bed nets or sports equipment. If youre hungry, you cannot eat a bed net. If your village is suffering from endemic diarrhea, soccer balls wont be worth much to you. Once youve been there, its hard to imagine doing anything but cash, Faye told me. Its so deeply uncomfortable to ask someone if they want cash or something else. They look at you like its a trick question.But at the time, distributing cash aid in a country with little to no banking infrastructure outside major cities would have required an extraordinary amount of manpower, not to mention introducing the risk of robbery and graft. But dirt-cheap mobile phones with pay-as-you-go minutes began flooding into sub-Saharan African markets in the 2000s. Enterprising Ghanaians, Kenyans and Nigerians started to use their minutes as a kind of currency. In 2007, Vodafone and the British Department for International Development together built a system, called M-Pesa, for Kenyans to transfer actual shillings from cellphone to cellphone. An estimated 96 percent of Kenyan households use the system today.Faye and Niehaus  along with their friends Rohit Wanchoo and Jeremy Shapiro, also graduate students  thought about setting up a website to raise cash in the United States and send it directly to poor Kenyans. But they never found a nonprofit that would distribute that cash abroad. They decided to do it themselves in 2008. Because it was a start-up, and we started in grad school, Faye said, we were open to the idea of it being wrong or failing.The following year, Faye traveled to small Kenyan villages during the summer break, offering cash to whoever seemed poor and would take it. (The money, about $5,000, came out of the foursomes own pockets.) That, surprisingly, worked well enough to give them the confidence to start a threadbare randomized control trial the year they graduated. It found that the recipients, who received an average of $500, saw excellent outcomes: Their children were 42 percent less likely to go a whole day without eating. Domestic-violence rates dropped, and mental health improved.In time, the nonprofit attracted the attention of Silicon Valley and its deep-pocketed young philanthropists. Two Facebook founders gave six-figure donations. Then, in the spring of 2012, Faye went to a friends brunch in Brooklyn and met someone working for Google.org, the tech giants giving arm. She liked the sound of GiveDirectly and arranged for Faye and Niehaus to give a presentation at Googles headquarters in Mountain View, Calif. The company ended up contributing $2.4 million.At first, GiveDirectly handed out large lump sums, generally $1,000 spread into three payments over the course of the year. The nonprofits field officers would locate low-income villages in Kenya, then find the poorest families in each individual village using a simple asset test (whether a family had a thatched roof or not). The field officers would introduce themselves to the town elders, explain their purpose and return to provide mobile phones and training to recipient families. Then GiveDirectly would push a button and send the money out. October morning, I went with two GiveDirectly executives, Joanna Macrae and Ian Bassin, to visit one of the villages that had received GiveDirectlys lump-sum payments. We took off at dawn from Kisumu, a bustling industrial city on the banks of Lake Victoria, and followed a two-lane highway to Bondo, a small trading city filled with cattle, bicycles and roadside food stands. From there, we turned inland from the lake and drove into a lush agricultural region.The residents of this village had received money in 2013, and it was visibly better off than the basic-income pilot village. Its clearings were filled with mango plantings, its cows sturdy. A small lake on the outskirts had been lined with nets for catching fish. Could you imagine sitting in an office in London or New York trying to figure out what this village needs? Bassin said as he admired a well-fed cow tied up by the lakeside. It would just be impossible.Perhaps, but delivering money by M-Pesa has some downsides, too. We visited an older woman named Anjelina Akoth Ngalo, her joints painful and swollen with advanced malaria. Sitting in her thatched-roof hut, she told us that she had received only one payment, not the three that she was promised. She had given her phone to a woman in a nearby village who transferred the money out of it. Ngalo visited the village elder to try to get her money back, but nothing had come of it. She was now destitute, living on about $5 a week. She had not eaten since the day before, and she had run out of malaria medication. (Bassin said that less than 1 percent of recipients experience theft, crime or conflict.)By giving money to some but not all, the organization had unwittingly strained the social fabric of some of these tight-knit tribal communities. One man we visited in a separate village nearby, Nicolus Owuor Otin, had acted as a liaison between the community and the GiveDirectly staff, showing them where different families houses were, for instance. For that reason, he said, the other villagers thought he was determining who would get what and threatened to burn his house down.Still, nearly all the recipients described the money as transformative. Fredrick Omondi Auma  a Burning Spear devotee wearing a Rasta-style hat and bell bottoms when we visited  had been impoverished, drinking too much, abandoned by his wife and living in a mud hut when GiveDirectly knocked on his door. He used his money to buy a motorbike to give taxi rides. He also started a small business, selling soap, salt and paraffin in a local town center; he bought two cows, one of which had given birth; and he opened a barbershop in the coastal city Mombasa. His income had gone from 600 shillings a week to 2,500 shillings  roughly $25, a princely sum for the area. His wife had returned. He had even stopped drinking as much. I used to go out drinking with 1,000 shillings, and Id wake up in the bar with 100 shillings, he said. Now I go out drinking with 1,000 shillings, and I wake up at home with 900.I didnt imagine I would be living in an iron-sheet house, he said, referring to his roof. I didnt imagine Id be wearing nice shoes. I didnt imagine I would have a business, and earnings from it. I didnt imagine I would be a man who owns cattle. of aid have been shown to work abysmally. PlayPumps  merry-go-round-type contraptions that let children pump water from underground wells as they play  did little to improve access to clean water. Buy-a-cow programs have saddled families with animals inappropriate to their environment. Skills training and microfinance, one 2015 World Bank study found, have shown little impact on poverty or stability, especially relative to program cost.All across the villages of western Kenya, it was clear to me just how much aid money was wasted on unnecessary stuff. The villagers had too many jerrycans and water tanks, because a nongovernmental organization kept bringing them. There was a thriving trade in Toms canvas slip-ons: People received them free from NGO workers and then turned around and sold them in the market centers. And none of the aid groups that had visited the villages managed to help the very poorest families.In the pilot-project village, for example, Faye and I paid a visit to a woman named Caroline Akinyi Odhiambo, who lives in a mud hut on the edge of town with her husband, Jack, a laborer, and her two small children. The most expensive thing she ever bought, she told me, was a chicken for 500 shillings, or about $5. Her family was persistently hungry. She knew of three nonprofit groups that had helped the village before GiveDirectly. One aided families with school fees, but it chose not to help her children. I do not want to talk about it, she said.What is worse, Faye told me, walking away from Odhiambos hut, was that most nonprofit projects in the region were never subject to anything like an impact assessment, either. There is no way to know how well they are working, or whether that money would be better spent on something else. The question should always be: Would we be better off just giving this money away as cash? Faye said. There usually is not a way to answer that question.A vast majority of aid  94 percent  is noncash. Donor resistance is one reason for this; it is not easy to persuade American oligarchs, British inheritors and Japanese industrialists to fork over their money to the extremely poor to use as they see fit. Theres the usual worries about welfare dependency, the whole Give a man a fish thing, said Amanda Glassman, a public health and development expert at the Center for Global Development. Its so powerful. Its really a basic psychological feature of the landscape. Youll start drinking. Youll start lying around at home because youre getting paid.Cash also seems harder to market. American taxpayers might be perfectly happy to fund education for young women in poor countries or vaccinations for schoolchildren. But they might balk at the idea of showering money on poor, unstable countries. The visual of putting a pill in a kids mouth is so much more attractive to people, Glassman said.Institutional inertia is another factor. There are a lot of good people working in the system, Niehaus said. And there are a lot of organizations pushing to do cash transfers. But the way they are structured and incentivized from the top down  they arent structured to do it. They have a specific mandate, like health. Cash transfers give choice of what goal to pursue to the recipients.Moreover, cash might force aid workers and nongovernmental organizations to confront the fact that they could be doing better by doing things differently  often by doing less. Its easy to muster evidence that you should be giving cash instead of fertilizer, said Justin Sandefur of the Center for Global Development. The harder argument is: You should shut down your U.S.A.I.D. program, which is bigger than the education budget of Liberia, and give the money to Liberians. Thats the radical critique. Faye put it more bluntly, if half-jokingly: If cash transfers flourished, the whole aid industry would have to fire itself.There is something to that. One estimate, generated by Laurence Chandy and Brina Seidel of the Brookings Institution, recently calculated that the global poverty gap  meaning how much it would take to get everyone above the poverty line  was just $66 billion. That is roughly what Americans spend on lottery tickets every year, and it is about half of what the world spends on foreign aid.village, the residents had just started to work through how transformative the program would be, what they could do with the money and how different their lives could feel in 12 years. Detractors often say that no one would work in a world with a basic income, that the safety net could grow a bit too comfortable. Ultimately, what a universal income would do to workers in the rich world will remain a mystery until someone tries it out.But here, many villagers were concerned primarily with procuring the sustenance and basic comforts that their penury had denied them. Odhiambo, the woman who had not been offered aid by the school group, planned to buy corrugated iron sheets for her roof; she considered possibly paying off her dowry. Another villager, Pamela Aooko Odero, ran a household that had been suffering from hunger, with all eight of them living on just 500 to 1,000 shillings a week. She took her money as soon as she got it and went to buy food.Many more made plans that were entrepreneurial. Two widowed sister-wives, Margaret Aloma Abagi and Mary Abonyo Abagi, told me they planned to pool their funds together to start a small bank with some friends. Charles Omari Ager, a houseboy for the sister-wives, had his phone turned off and wrapped in a plastic bag in his pocket when the first text came in. He was driving the widows goats and cattle from one dried-out, bramble-filled meadow to another when he happened upon an aid worker, who prompted him to pull out his phone, turn it on and wait. The text was there. The money was there. Im happy! Im happy! Im happy! he said. He bought himself a goat that day.When he got his money, Erick Odhiambo Madoho walked to the cow-dotted local highway nearest the village and took a , a shared minibus, overloaded with 20 passengers, down to Lake Victoria. There he found an M-Pesa stand and converted his mobile money into shillings. He used the cash to buy the first of three rounds of filament-thin fishing line that he would need to hand-knot into nets to catch tilapia in the lake.When the nets were done, he told me, he would rent a boat and hire a day laborer to work with him. He anticipated that his income, after costs, might reach as much as 2,000 shillings on a good day. I asked him why he hadnt saved money for nets beforehand.Annie Lowrey is a contributing writer at The Atlantic and a former economic-policy reporter for The Times. She is writing a book about universal basic income for Crown.
                    In one of the most beautiful places of Malta, we created this inspiring working environment.
                    Whether you work inside or at our open-air workspace: Who needs motivational quotes if you can have the beautiful outlook over the city and the sea, with the 24/7 ability to grind?

                
                    We consider ourselves as a working community of like-minded people. You will live in a charming Maltese house with spacious rooftops overlooking the whole island, where we are having BBQ's in the evening and enjoy the sun during the day!
                
                    Malta is the perfect mix between not having to fear of missing out on something and a small but
                    progressive paradise with europe's most beautiful shorelines and a wide range of things to do after your
                    daily hustle.
                
                    We are the perfect place for digital nomads, bloggers, coders, hippies or all other remote workers
                    who just need a laptop, a big ass flatscreen and a comfy desk to get into their zone. Plus the
                    sun. Plus the beaches. Plus the peace of one of the smallest countries in the world.

                Whether you want to have your own private room or prefer to sleep in a shared room, well have you covered. After
                    your daily hustle join the others on the rooftop for a cold local beer.
                    We know how important it is to be able to grind undisturbed on the one hand
                    and to have likeminded people, to hang out after your daily hustle on the other hand.
                    Therefore you will have the chance to join in on the following activities.

                
                    Daniel, kind of a coder for more than a decadem but dreams to be the next Elon Musk, wannabe bodybuilder, wannabe vegetarian
                    - born and raised in Germany, brainwashed in India. In love with Malta since 2009. Paula's affaire
                    de coeur.
                
                    Paula admires the sun, can cope with all kinds of people but is still at war with stupid technology. But addicted to reddit.
                    She works in a social organization in Malta as cares for the kids and elderly in need. Daniels romantic romance.
                
                    As a peak performance coach Jana helps business owners worldwide to achieve a much deeper sense of fulfilment and clarity in their professional purpose, money and relationships. She uses a powerful mix of Western psychotherapy approaches, Eastern philosophies, professional skills in Marketing and Finance and several years of working with Tony Robbins' Coaching Team to create lasting behavioural changes and transformation.
                    Jana is a full-time Nomad since May 2014, loves the ocean, is a certified skydiver and very passionate about her relationship with Chris.
                    www.janaschuberth.com #oceanloving
                
                    Chris has been in the software development world for 7 years, learning full-stack engineering between corporate jobs. Having been location independent for over a year, he is now building his own mobile app and game development business.
                    Chris enjoys studying mixed martial arts, singing karaoke, playing video games, and cultivating a loving, passionate relationship with Jana. #Awesome #karaoke-loving
                
                    Christopher is from Montana, USA and works with geospatial data as a solutions engineer for Mapillary (mapillary.com). As digital nomad since August 2015, Christopher likes to keep close to nature, is a map connoisseur, and loves reading books.
                
                    Digital marketer and blogger obsessed with sports and beautiful places.
                
                    Scoring, Timing and TV Graphics for sport events. Bottomless coffee, meeting interesting new people, networking, get some shit done and of course have fun.
                #whatdoyouhavetoloose #chosefreedom
            #reachthenextlevel #nopainnogain #exploretheworld #pizzapastabeerandwork #nurlowcarbmachtstark #silenthill
            #highspeedfreedom #feelthelove #theworldischangingyourdreamsdonthaveto #mindyourownbusiness
            #yummypastizziforfourtycents #dontfartintotheoffice #actuallyyoucan

        %PDF-1.6%
86 0 obj<>endobj               
100 0 obj<>/Filter/FlateDecode/ID[<8299B0827E365A4E9044B3D5DDD3BADB><5D47660BF320FA4F9CA0A934C6104CEA>]/Index[86 21]/Info 85 0 R/Length 76/Prev 154260/Root 87 0 R/Size 107/Type/XRef/W[1 2 1]>>stream
hbbd``b`6@H\L "$"@6+c;8$$La`D'3v0 L
endstreamendobjstartxref
0
%%EOF
        
106 0 obj<>stream
hb```"ENW>1d7CABqEUxch$65p#@DRw'I)Rm:qI1Y8"R~D(KpM!`` bp !s`
E: j84#XAAd w5bapD23~  `0eC~c`g  ^p
endstreamendobj87 0 obj<>endobj88 0 obj<>/Font<>/ProcSet[/PDF/Text]>>/Rotate 0/Type/Page>>endobj89 0 obj<>stream
hms8?/ansffirMy:j+[v-M'vFckWZG\q='"0u83Mg09pcgAs0O]wZUoLPNJksc	8f8	^%^qsxwx@AT*VsWHy)((2devY0QnhaQ65XauW %JP-T+6lpT,cVkG|dESoK4-7|cuDm{1R:^8j2)HjgnS_`XwF;pF`^o2BcbXq?;+7L^5TYCwA0.u$2b\}k[qJ:JLjdq_z38|K-t]E{9"uT45z0vAA	ndNN:o&m_j./;`1Fshj	auqhcx0?DS\TRJFZ0gh;.w`-2t$q^$MB~ xg9r>?LJ3%0
5rg#fr-j:d*aWNQ!dc7oKw|i/{v5|maSk\# 
endstreamendobj90 0 obj<>stream
HQ0~CuXiz,io_Z}8heNr&sJSCLv-m](X+vm7eSc@[H9
0JbW[;b7M/q'UfW>oeCO>gR5l*"e;fpp.HJEFAc	|v>08p2 5\6	](h]3IMp4H?k0kTvw[wnfQ|l~V R(Y3k|1U=+!
6q}	!+ w&EH$:y?Y{;	'g!W@nBY+ZB6v	;&&O j_
endstreamendobj91 0 obj<>stream
H;r  ~grJ\	
[[R%U`2v=$YcqYnKXe}+}ebwlhP#=h\ZI1+Cg0i7;k>b5H~jpC!  '
 iBE #
 #	@naa[>^>vK?D`a0"."D3,]FeLp2?l9@jF w  LN\
endstreamendobj92 0 obj<>stream
H10 NB$EKwwUdFc%U0h{$n;MPAM\a9Q$wA)TG|QCSn[
A"!0 HC
tGg0{VA0;U`5.mq6P'H1qU(-6n253\FIe\l\]_"p7 HV
endstreamendobj93 0 obj<>stream
Hn H}FOC|Morgan Tocker is the Product Manager for the MySQL Server at Oracle.  He has previously worked in a variety of roles including Support, Training and Community.  Morgan is based out of Toronto, Canada.Most of the secure hash functions ever designed have turned out to be
vulnerable to collision attacks. This includes the widely-used secure
hash functions MD5 and SHA-1.What about pre-image and second-pre-image attacks? Have practical hash
functions historically been vulnerable to those?I summarize here the history of attacks on secure hash functions in order
to yield an answer to that.The main result is that there is a big gap between the history of
collision attacks and pre-image attacks. Almost  secure hash functions (designed after
approximately the year 2000) have so far succumbed to collision attacks,
either. if, given an output (image), an
adversary can't find any input (pre-image) which results in that output.There are cases where collision-resistance doesn't matter at all and what
you care about is second-pre-image resistance.For such uses it would be harmless to be able to generate collisions, but
harmful to be able to generate pre-images or second-pre-images. For this
purpose the relevant question is not whether hash function designs have
historically been revealed to be vulnerable to collisions but instead
whether they've been revealed to be vulnerable to (second-)pre-images.An example of this is the construction of hash-based digital
signatures. Hash-based digital signatures are secure (resistant to
forgery) as long as the hash function they are built on has
second-pre-image resistance, e.g. Such a hash-based digital signature would fail if its underlying hash
function failed at second-pre-image resistance, but this is the 
way that it could be brokenany attack which was able to forge digital
signatures against such a scheme would One reason that hash-based digital signatures might be useful is that if
an attacker has a sufficiently large quantum computer, they could forge
digital signatures that rely on factorization or discrete log, such as
RSA, DSA, ECDSA, or Ed25519. There is no reason to think that such a
quantum computer would enable them to break secure hash functions,
however. have a
sufficiently large quantum computer, but has a mathematical breakthrough
that allows them to exploit the asymmetric crypto technique (such as
factoring, discrete log, code-based crypto, etc.), then they would be
able exploit asymmetric-crypto-based digital signatures, but not
hash-based digital signatures.What about in the other direction, though? Can't we imagine an attacker
who can break hash-based signatures but can't break
asymmetric-crypto-based signatures? Nothere cannot be such an
attacker. Any attacker who can break hash-based signatures can also break
asymmetric-crypto-based signatures, because the latter rely on hash
functions in addition to relying on their asymmetric crypto primitives.Be careful about this! The ability to generate collisions can be
surprisingly harmful to many systems. This is one of those subtleties of
cryptographic engineering which frequently trip up engineers who are not
cryptography experts. The famous Internet Root Cert attack  is an
example of engineers working at VeriSign incorrectly thinking that their
system was not threatened by collisions (in the absence of
second-pre-images). that a mere collision attack
(not second-pre-image) against SHA-1 wouldn't make git users vulnerable
to malicious action, but no-one has written a security proof showing that
git is safe against this attack.In contrast to VeriSign and git, the cryptographic constructions
mentioned above come with proofs showing that the security of the
construction is guaranteed, assuming the security of some underlying
component. For example, the hash-based digital signature  attack which couldn't generate
second-pre-images against the hash function couldn't forge signatures., which was designed in 1989 and 1990, and which turned
out to be vulnerable to differential cryptanalysis. Differential
cryptanalysis was discovered (by the open research community) in 1990.No other widely-studied hash function has been shown to be vulnerable to
a practical (second-)pre-image attack. Furthermore, no other
widely-studied hash function has been shown to be vulnerable to a
(second-)pre-image attack that is more efficient than brute force, even
if we were to count attacks too expensive for anyone to actually
implement!The history of (second-)pre-image attacks is therefore quite different
from the history of collision attacks. Most hash functions have been
proven vulnerable to collision attacks more efficient than brute force,
and even to collision attacks that could be implemented in practice.This is a timeline of the publication of hash functions and of
publication of weaknesses in hash functions.I omit attacks on reduced-round or otherwise weakened variants of hash
functions (there are a lot of those). I omit attacks that have
unrealistic requirements, like attacks that require 2 precomputation
or require the messages to be 2 blocks long (there are a lot of those,
too).I label an attack as cheaper than brute force only if the attack comp
times the attack mem is less than the cost of brute force search (see
If you are aware of any other papers which fit these criteria, or if you spot
an error in this document, please write to me: The main result of this investigation is that there is a big gap between
the historical successes of collision attacks and the almost
non-existence successes of pre-image attacks. This is evidence that a
cryptosystem which is invulnerable to collision-attacks (even if still
vulnerable to pre-image attacks) is much stronger than one which is
vulnerable to collision-attacks. sometime between 1996 (Tiger) and 2000 (Whirlpool), humanity
learned how to make collision-resistant hash functions, and none of the
prominent secure hash functions designed since that era have succumbed to
collision attacks. Maybe modern hash functions like SHA-256, SHA-3, and BLAKE2 will never be broken.Or maybe this is just a 17-year-long hiatus, and in the future we'll
discover how to perform collision attacks against the "modern" secure
hash functions. Looking in the rearview mirror can't answer that for us.id Software co-founder John Romero tells the early story of the game company in
this GDC 2016 talk and lists the programming principles that guided them towards
the rapid development of many games including Doom and Quake with a very small
team.Some of these principles resembles todays common Agile practices while
others do not. I like them and id definitely had good results, so the principles
should at least be considered and adapted to different contexts.We are our own best testing team and should never allow anyone else to
experience bugs or see the game crash.  Do not continue on. If you dont fix
your bugs your new code will be built on a buggy codebase and ensure an
unstable foundation. Tell your lead and peers exactly how you are going
to solve your current task and get feedback and advice. Do not treat game
programming like each coder is a black box. The project could go off the rails
cause delays.I'm a programmer from Brazil living in Sweden. I taught myself programming when I was in high school and didn't stop learning ever since. I'm currently working at Spotify as a frontend developer.
Robotic cars are great at monitoring other cars, and theyre getting better at noticing pedestrians, squirrels, and birds. The main challenge, though, is posed by the lightest, quietest, swerviest vehicles on the road.Bicycles are probably the most difficult detection problem that autonomous vehicle systems face, says , a visual computing expert at the University of California, San Diego, says bikes pose a complex detection problem because they are relatively small, fast and heterogenous. A car is basically a big block of stuff. A bicycle has much less mass and also there can be more variation in appearance  there are more shapes and colors and people hang stuff on them.Thats why the detection rate for cars has outstripped that for bicycles in recent years. Most of the improvement has come from techniques whereby systems train themselves by studying thousands of images in which known objects are labeled. One reason for this is that most of the training has concentrated on images featuringcars, with far fewer bikes. presented recently by researchers at George Mason University and stealth-mode robotic taxi developer ,Deep3DBox identifies 89 percent of cars. Sub-70-percent car-spotting scores prevailed just a few years ago.Deep3DBox further excels at a tougher task: predicting which way vehicles are facing and inferring a 3D box around each object spotted on a 2D image. Deep learning is typically used for just detecting pixel patterns. We figured out an effective way to use the same techniques to estimate geometrical quantities, explains Deep3DBox contributor However, when it comes to spotting and orienting bikes and bicyclists, performance drops significantly. Deep3DBox is among the best, yet it spots only 74 percent of bikes in the benchmarking test. And though it can orient over 88 percent of the cars in the test images, it scores just 59 percent for the bikes.Koeck says commercial systems are delivering better results as developers gather massive proprietary datasets of road images with which to train their systems. And she says most demonstration vehicles augment their visual processing with laser-scanning (ie lidar) imagery and radar sensing, which help recognize bikes and their relative position even if they cant help determine their orientation.. These maps offer computer vision algorithms a head start in identifying bikes, which stand out as anomalies from pre-recorded street views. Ford Motor says highly detailed 3D maps are at the core of the 70 self-driving test cars that it plans to have driving on roads this year.Vasconcelos doubts that todays sensing and automation technology is good enough to replace human drivers, but he believes they can already help human drivers avoid accidents. Automated cyclist detection is seeing its first commercial applications in automated emergency braking systems (AEB) for conventional vehicles, which are expanding to respond to pedestrians and cyclists in addition to cars., crunching camera and radar data to predict potential collisions; it is rolling out similar tech for European buses this year. More automakers are expected to follow suit as European auto safety regulators begin scoring AEB systems for cyclist detection next year.That said, AEB systems still suffer from a severe limitation that points to the next grand challenge that AV developers are struggling with: predicting where moving objects will go. Squeezing more value from cyclist-AEB systems will be an especially tall order, says Olaf Op den Camp, a senior consultant at the Dutch Organization for Applied Scientific Research (TNO). Op den Camp, who led the design of Koeck agrees: Bicycles are much less predictable than cars because its easier for them to make sudden turns or jump out of nowhere.That means it may be a while before cyclists escape the threat of human error, which contributes to 94 percent of traffic fatalities, according to U.S. regulators. Everybody who bikes is excited about the promise of eliminating that, says Brian Wiedenmeier, executive director of the San Francisco Bicycle Coalition. But he says it is right to wait for automation technology to mature. designed to protect cyclists from cars and trucks crossing designated bike lanes. He applauded when California officials pulled the vehicles registrations, citing . (Uber is still testing its self-driving cars in Arizona and Pittsburgh, and it recently got permission to put some back on San Francisco streets strictly as mapping machines, provided that human drivers are at the wheel.)Wiedenmeier says Uber's rush to market is the wrong way to go. As he puts it: Like any new technology this needs to be tested very carefully.A not-for-profit organization, IEEE is the world's largest technical professional organization dedicated to advancing technology for the benefit of humanity.