ign
There are eight playable characters in Berserk and the Band of the Hawk. This page details how to unlock all of them, and how each of their fighting styles differ. Because his weapon is so large, Guts makes slow, but very wide swings, and is capable of taking out large groups of enemies with just a few swings. Once you unlock Guts' Berserk Armor after the mission "Familiar" in Story Mode, you will be able to transform into Berserker mode while in Frenzy with this armor equipped (press R1). Griffith's Square x4 + Triangle combo offers fantastic movement through crowds while simultaneously eradicating them. Complete 100 floors in Endless Eclipse Mode to give Griffith the ability to transform while in Frenzy Mode (press R1). Casca's fighting style incorporates martial-arts style kicks and acrobatics with her sword swipes. She's a fast character that becomes even faster in Frenzy Mode. Judeau specializes in knives, and dual-wields daggers as his main method of attack. His Throwing Knives Sub-Weapon is much more powerful than Guts' knives. He's a very mobile, swift character. In Frenzy Mode, his normal attack chains infinitely and he strikes even faster than usual. Zodd appears a few times as an opponent in Berserk and the Band of the Hawk Story Mode. After you first defeat him, he will be available as a Playable Character in both Free Mode and Endless Eclipse Mode. Zodd fights with a great sword, but as a strong and inhuman Apostle, he can wield it with one hand. Sometimes he pulls out an axe, duel-wielding both sword and axe. Zodd can use his Sub-Weapon Roar to stun enemies around him. In Frenzy Mode, Zodd can transform into his full Apostle Form, in which he appears as a winged beast with the face of a lion the body of a minotaur. In this form, he can glide around the battle field, razing down enemies in his path, and use the Sub-Weapons Great Roar, Cleave, Hurtle and Throw. Clear 100 floors in Endless Eclipse Mode with Zodd to unlock his Apostle Form as a costume, no transformation required. Like Griffith, Serpico strikes quickly with a rapier. However, the Sylph Sword that Shierke bestows upon him grants his blows with extra power from wind spirits. Some of his combos finish with a literal whirlwind. He's able to use Sylph's Blessing and Vacuum Pearl as Sub-Weapons. Shierke is a witch, and as such she battles exclusively with magic spells. They can be quite powerful and hit multiple enemies at a time, but take time to cast. The stronger they are (the further down the combo chain), the longer they take to cast, and Shierke is very vulnerable during this. Shierke's Sub Weapons all grant her extra utility to keep enemies away from her so she can cast safely without interruption. Her Summoning Magic brings forth a Golem that acts as a decoy. Aspiration Magic pulls in enemies to the same point, making them easier to dispatch of in one blow. Rotting Root Magic poisons surrounding enemies and impedes their movement. Double Magic creates a Magic Circle that creates a duplicate of Shierke's next charged attack. Wyald first appears as the Black Dog Knights' leader, sent after the Band of the Hawk by Midland's king. He uses a club in battle, and can literally somersault through crowds of enemies to take them down. He's also able to rip up the ground from beneath opponents to take them out. Welcome to IGN's Guide for the Resident Evil 7 Biohazard DLC - Bedroom. In Bedroom, you'll be a part of one of Clancy's VHS tapes as he tries to escape from the Master Bedroom of the , though things have changed slightly. Youll have one hand tied to the bed, and Marguerite Baker will come in with food - wanting you to eat some of it to become part of the family. When presented, act enthusiastic until she leaves. , and then free yourself from the restraint and get out of bed. Note that you can return to bed at any point and look nice for when Marguerite comes back - if youre out of bed when she comes back...that wont go so well. Check to the left to find a  (you need its light to inspect other objects), and note that the crook is fastened with a cork. Then look at the vanity dresser by the door to the closet thats locked - if you peer behind the dresser you can crouch down and spot a  taped to the wall. The left drawer has the note usually on the globe that related to the clock the same time as the other clocks. The right drawer comes out with a strong pull but doesnt go back in (Trust me, its better if you dont open it), and theres a vase on top of the dresser you can inspect to find a Now look at the little altar across from the bed to find a space for three painting above it - but only one is present on the left, . You may be tempted to grab it and place it in the middle to match the shape on the wall - but lets wait until you find all of them first. To the right is an unfinished grandfather clock thats locked, so look to the left of the bed to find . Behind the painting you swiped are two bottles with a cork, but the spiders wont let you near it, and the lighter isnt enough to stop them. . Doing this will trigger the clock to ring, startling Marguerite. Youll have 60 seconds to make sure  looks out of place before getting back in bed. This means closing the Grandfather Clock and any drawers you opened (if you broke the drawer on the right youre screwed), and making sure Painting B back in front of the bottles, and Painting C is back to the middle, and putting the  back on its crook before getting in bed and closing the restraint. If all goes well you can fool Marguerite into thinking nothing is wrong, but if not, shell attack you causing damage before resetting everything and leaving again. Shell also tighten the restraints, but you can still open them with the Spoon.  embedded in it. Grab it, and make sure to grab the Paintings and put them back in their original positions (one less thing to worry about next time Marguerite shows up). The Sewing Needle makes a good clock hand, and you can now see the clock time by opening up the Grandfather Clock (5:00). Doing so will slide the bed across to reveal a locked door below the bed that needs the . It will also loosen a note that now appears on the floor with a riddle. Unfortunately youll have 60 seconds to read it - as the noise from the bed will alert Marguerite. Heres the riddle for reference: Jump back into bed as mom comes in, only this time she has a new plate for you to try. If everything is in order shell leave again, letting you nab the new The aforementioned riddle mentions three men - the men who are in each of the paintings. - and next to their slots you can see a marking for North. The man from the west, the left painting, should be  (who has no eyes = darkness). The man traveling on giving his flesh means the middle painting should be  (the man covered in flames). Place these in order and the book will open a new section, a voodoo doll holding a fork and spoon, with a leaf symbol in the middle. The Leaf symbol corresponds to one of the symbols on the lock to the Storage Closet - but what about the others? Inspect the Fork and the Spoon you have to find the other symbols, a Snake on the Fork, and an Apple on the Spoon. Set up the lock to read Snake, Leaf, Apple, and the door will unlock.  is locked in a cage next to Shadow Puzzle with two different shadow plinths and a lightbox that doesnt seem to be working. The back of it is taped up, and if you check a coat on a rack in the corner, you can learn that the  is stashed behind the dresser if you didnt already (and also that silence might help against Marguerite). A cabinet next to it is boarded up, but your  with the Stove and place it under the spiders, and then use it with the Lighter to blaze them off. However, in the process one of the bottles breaks, alerting Marguerite and giving you just 40 seconds to grab your prize - the  - from the bottle, take the Stove and replace it with the Painting, make sure the Storage door is closed, and hop back into bed. , and use it on the plinth closest to the painting to form Medusas Head. Now go to the other plinth and use the Fork, and align the prongs of the fork to overlap and form the snake head. This will unlock the  - but will also alert Marguerite, and you can spy on her bursting into the room from the hole in the wall. She's not leaving any time soon, so you'll need to think on your feet. Grab the Lantern back from the Shadow Puzzle, and equip the Knife so you are holding it out as you confront Marguerite. As long as you have the Knife out, Clancy will stab her to stun her for a brief period. That's your cue to race over to the clock and slide the bed over, and open the hatch on the floor with the 