mashable
Imagine how America would react if Australia was mean to the late Maurice Sendak or even Eric Carle, author of That's how the latter feels now, after hearing that beloved children's book author Mem Fox was apparently left in tears after being detained for hours at Los Angeles Airport and accused of having the wrong visa in early February."The way I was treated would have made any decent American shocked to the core, because that's not America as a whole, it really isn't," she said. "It's just that people have been given permission to let rip in a fashion that is alarming."Fox, who claims she had a valid visa, has reportedly received a written apology from the United States embassy in Canberra. The Embassy and U.S. Customs and Border Protection have been contacted for comment.She told the outlet she was aggressively questioned, and suggested President Donald Trump has created an atmosphere in the U.S. that makes such behaviour acceptable. Fox now doubts she'll ever return."I am old and white, innocent and educated, and I speak English fluently," she added. "Imagine what happened to the others in the room, including an old Iranian woman in her 80s, in a wheelchair."Really America? The woman literally wrote a book about magic possums called little Hush and Grandma Poss  there's nothing nicer than that. Naturally, Australian Twitter reacted with outrage, and plenty of jokes about the location of known trouble maker, "the green sheep."Children's author Mem Fox detained by US customs. Treated horribly.  Didn't give up the location of green sheep. . She is my boys favorite author. I guess possum magic is too extremist? Or 10 fingers and toes too diverse? is a metaphor for Islamic extremism. Grandma is really training Hush to be "invisible" to the watchful CIA.Oh yeah, Mem Fox is a REALLY big threat to America. "Where is the Green Sheep?" is sooooooo dangerous! Writer/director Barry Jenkins' deeply resonant cinematic tryptich of a young Miami man's life won all six Independent Spirit Awards for which it was nominated Saturday  including the first award given away, and the last  a triumphant result for the film many hope can upset  was the odds-on favorite at the Indie Spirits, but a sweep was hardly guaranteed. It became a reality, though, over the course of an afternoon beneath a giant white tent on the beach near the Santa Monica Pier.It was also a new record for most Indie Spirit wins by a single film. Honors included Best Feature, Best Director, the Robert Altman Award for best ensemble cast, Best Screenplay and Best Editing. on Sunday at the Academy Awards. But it's believed to be the best contender, and though Oscar voting closed days ago, is now riding a wave of enthusiasm from a big, perfect sweep at the Film Independent Spirit Awards.Film Independent limits its eligible films by budget, and is believed to cap nominees around $20 million  meaning several Oscar contenders like With those kinds of odds, one would think it'd take a pretty gut-wrenchingly awful movie to upset the widely-panned superhero bonanza in each of the event's top (or bottom) prizes.Luckily for Zack Snyder and company, Razzie voters found such a film in...conservative pundit Dinesh D'Souza's  described as an "embarrassment to propaganda films," took home raspberry-shaped trophies for "Worst Picture," "Worst Director," "Worst Actor" (for D'Souza, who plays himself, in dramatized parts) and "Worst Actress" (for breakout Becky Turner, who played Hillary Clinton). did however still manage to snag another four awards"Worst Screenplay," "Worst Supporting Actor" (for Jesse Eisenberg's Zuckerberg-like villain) and "Worst Screen Combo." Between a self-aggrandizing dramatization that makes D'Souza's stint in a white-collar detention center look like an episode of  and a strange scene in which Barack Obama's Kenyan father holds a spear while visiting his young son's classroom, there's plenty to cringe at in the pundit's mess of a movie., on the other hand, was derided as an overstuffed, pretentious mess that blew through a massive budget for little rewardthough it still ranks at a comparatively stellar twenty-seven percent on Rotten Tomatoes."It all came down to two decidedly different examples of cinematic sludge: The $250 million comic book oop-us 'Batman v Superman' and the faux right wing 'documentary' 'Hillary's America: The Secret History of the Democratic Party,'" a Razzies spokesperson said in a statement.For his part, D'Souza actually accepted the award via video, because trolls be trolling, as he told the audience:Thereason youre giving it to me is that youre very upset that Trump won. You havent gotten over it and probably never will.If you're into, uh, being trolled, you can watch D'Souza's "acceptance" speech here (it starts at 5:56):The only two remaining awards went to Kristen Wiigfor her supporting role in Zoolander 2and Mel Gibson, who earned a special "redeemer" award.It wasn't just the models making a statement. Staffers and attendees also received hats of their own, making the whole program a wonderland of pink ears and solidarity. And, of course, a fair amount of selfie-taking.the hats weren't purely symbolic, either. A portion of the show's proceeds will be donated to the ACLU and the UN Refugee Agencyfurther proof that culture and politics aren't detangling anytime soon.' is a workout tool that was created using technology from NASA. Astronauts in space use the same kinds of resistance exercise. Its lightweight design is perfect to pack in your bag.Luckily, we're keeping score for you for you. Each week, we round up the latest app news, along with a few of our favorite new and updated apps, to keep you in the loop with everything coming to your phone.Here's what we were following this week. And if you're looking for more, be sure to check out last week's look at the most interesting apps. of 2015 and now it looks like our favorite llama-herding snowboarder is finally gonna get the sequel we've been waiting for. Snowman, the company behind  for Android users. Google's set to redesign its main texting app with Android Messages, which uses an updated Rich Communications Services (RCS) rather than SMS. This'll give users a feature-rich experience, including things like stickers, read receipts, and other things we've come to expect from messaging apps these days, finally:Also on the messaging front: Google's confirmed it's working on a desktop version of its newest messaging app,  that allows you to attach multiple photos and videos to a single post. While we were pretty sure it was going to be . The deal should help Airbnb expand its business beyond short term rentals as the company looks to move into  is apparently getting its own mobile game for iOS Android. No details yet on what the game will be like but , nominated for 14 Academy Awards, isn't likely to break the Oscars record of 11 wins by a single film, shared by  that's been building for weeks doesn't stand a chance against the bulwark of passion for writer/director Damien Chazelle's modern-yet-throwbacky musical. This is no "safe" or "consensus" winner. People who love That kind of devotion means lots of first-place votes and straight-ticket check-offs through the more technical categories.'s nominations are in the same category best original songmeaning the most it could win is 13. But it won't, because there are two categories where it just doesn't have the goods: Best Actor (Ryan Gosling) and Best Original Screenplay (Chazelle).Gosling's Seb is a career-making charm-a-thon, but it can't hang in this category, which will go to Denzel Washington for . That much-deserved win will be seen by some as an upset of early front-runner Casey Affleck, whose performance in  lines will be celebrated and quoted for decades to come, but Academy voters like a big ladle of gravitas on their original scripts. This category awards the creation and design of sound  effects, ambient noise, and yes, to some degree, music  but it's often weighted toward degree-of-difficulty. This category is for the final post-production blend, which a mixer finesses from the creations of the sound editor. It'll be close. Linus Sandgren's camera twirls and dances right along with Seb and Mia, exploring spaces and whip-panning with big payoffs  but there are some odd out-of-focus moments and barely-correctible darkness issues in the now-famed opening sequence. But this category is typically awarded to the most noticeable and risk-taking work. Advantage: is favored by some for this category, but let's face it: you remember Jackie O's outfits because of Jackie O   is a recreation. You remember Mia's yellow dress and Seb's black-on-white wingtips because those were cool choices.is a major threat here; Barry Jenkins' lovely tryptich could have been choppy or jarring in the wrong hands, but instead the three stages of life it depicts feel somehow like a flowing memory.  pulls this out for degree of difficulty and old-school, hand-made marriage of music and indelible images.Gosling might've held up his end of the bargain with competition this weak. Huppert has a support base, but as someone recently said, "a. Chazelle took the Director's Guild Award and this award is firmly his to lose. And that's a great thing! As one inspiringly hopeful Oscar observer (and Jenkins backer) told me: "I'm thinking of this as Game 1 between Barry and Damien in a 7-game series. Damien will probably pull it out even without playing the best game." Sounds like the start of something wonderful and new, no?"Audition (The Fools Who Dream)" and "City of Stars" are competing against one another here, but no matter: "City of Stars" will prevail  it serves as the film's de facto theme and is one point a duet. Sorry Lin-Manuel Miranda, but that EGOT will have to wait.As the mechanized German Army swept through Europe in the early years of World War II, American military brass recognized the need to develop a strong armored force.For the next two years, as engineers and factories rushed to design and manufacture new tanks, the men of the 1st Armored trained at Fort Knox, Kentucky (also home to the famous gold depository).Thousands of recruits were introduced to hulking tanks, half-tracks and armored vehicles, and trained in newly developed tactics and doctrines for a modern kind of warfare.In 1942, Office of War Information photographer Alfred T. Palmer visited Fort Knox, shooting in exquisitely detailed 4x5 color film to lend the images a monumental, intimidating power.' has ears that move and a LED heart that pulses the faster you roll it around. It even has wheels that look like paws and a portable charger for your devices. Maybe it's time for an adventure with your favorite travel buddy.Now, after over a decade creating and producing unscripted projects for cable and broadcast channels, Broome is hoping to make reality TV work for Netflix., which launched on the streaming service Friday, is Broome's latest  for lack of a better word  beast.The series, co-produced with Sylvester Stallone, pits 108competitors from the U.S., Brazil, South Korea, Mexico, Germany and Japan (18 from each country) against one another. They all take their shot at running a physically demanding obstacle course called The Beast."Netflix has been different in the fact that there are 'no rules,'" Broome said. "The creative freedom of the platform and the support from the Netflix team to push the envelope  for example, having every episode open completely differently, made this experience unique for me  it allowed me to challenge myself as a producer and not have to worry about any constraints. I loved that.""Nothing like this has ever been attempted," he said. "From the 4k media storage alone with that many cameras to the way the show was colored and treated was a groundbreaking experience. In many ways, the editing equipment needed is barely ready to handle what we attempted."Attempts to adapt unscripted programming for various countries seems to work on linear TV. For example, the UK had the popular show  marks the first reality/competition series to launch globally in the streaming service space (although Amazon last year launched features 12 competitors (two from each country).Different versions of the show feature different local celebrities as a host, and popular athletes will provide commentary throughout the competition."It was unbelievably challenging and rewarding to take these episodes and make six different localized country versions," Broome said. "I felt that each of the countries involved should feel that this series was made specifically for them  and I feel thats what we were able to achieve in each case. While the physical runs are the same across all country versions, there were many localized pieces that showcased that countrys competitors as well as their own local hosts. This allowed us to create the proper tone and vibe for each country; so for example, the tone of the series in Germany is very different than that in Mexico or Brazil. It was one of the biggest differentiating factors in any show of this type." that the popular streaming service would expand into 130 more countries as a part of an effort to spark major growth.At a conference later in the year, Netflix's Ted Sarandos said that unscripted television is a very interesting business, and that the company would focus on shows that are more likely to travel internationally.Given that Netflix declines to release viewership data for its shows, there's no real way to measure whether such an effort will pay off."The world will watch in awe as amazing competitors from around the globe overcome grueling physical challenges," Stallone said in a statement. "And in the process become champions and heroes."