mtv-news-uk
 villa than the hilliest of terrains, what with her fellow sexy singletons giving her grief and branding her boring. and Becca Edwards' seriously dramatic love triangle, with the Geordie Shore lad constantly finding himself having explosive showdowns with his ex.She then heads to the breakfast table to announce that shell be leaving, telling her fellow beach pals: I just think its time that I left and Ive made the decision that I will be going tonight.Telling Zara how he feels, Aaron admits: Thing is like, Im not gonna make you stay, I do want you to stay but Im not gonna make you stay.I do like you, and obviously see if we speak after here and then you just have a good time and Ill go home and cuddle my dog to death. babe, Aaron took it upon himself to ask Lewis if he was planning on paying back that 25,000 he sponged off of Marns.Literally never stopped from the min I woke up today!! FaceTime with smiler will sort me out before I drive to manc early morning for oz But alas that just isnt the case, as he responded to two tweets last night with a simple no on the matter. Sob.Meanwhile Marnie has been looking to Kim Woodburn for some TLC, which honestly is a friendship we just never saw coming.Kim woodburn can fix anything. God she's a howl. First time I've giggled in days, she captioned the snap.Stepehen Bear has taken to Snapchat to reveal a the heartwarming contents of his Valentines card from The snap comes after Charlotte yet again denied that she was in a relationship with her co-star, telling The Sun: "Me and Bear spend a lot of time together due to filming. Sadly Im still single. Hes just my friend."We do spend a lot of a lot of time together and we do have the odd flirt, yes, but were just working together at the minute."Breaking up with a boyfriend is never easy, especially when said boyfriend is a reported love rat. Its even worse when youre famous. Just ask That all ended when Marnie discovered Lewis had done the dirty and cheated on her. OnValentines Day, no less. and Stephen Bear are a couple or not, MTV sat the two down to find out once and for all if they are indeed together. was SRSLYCRAY! Sh*t went down BIG TIMEwith the arrival of Harriette's ex, whilst Aaron and Becca proved their status as the villa's wildestradgies during an explosive fight#DRAMZAre things gonna chill out in episode 7? ABSOLUTELY NOT! Life on the beach becomes a LIVING NIGHTMAREfor the sexy singles with the arrival of Jacques's ex who EXPOSES his big secret...How's the villa gonna cope with the biggest BOMBSHELL of the series so far?! It's just TOO much y'all!Because we can't wait until next week, here's some EXCLUSIVE spoiler picsto get you EXCITED forthe most EXPLOSIVE episodeof EOTB so far!Aside from discovering the odd chicken nugget down the side of the sofa and stumbling across a concoction of various drinks during a mortal night out on The Toon, However, despite our mint lass Chloe wearing her heart on her sleeve like a Pandora bracelet, she's exclusively told MTV that actually, it might not have been proper romance with Scotty T after all.She explained: "I have been in love three times. I think no-one that you know. I thought I was in love with Scott but I wasn't."Away from matters of the heart, Chloe revealed that her mum is the most important person in her life, and that the first time she got absolutely mortal, she cried.Celebs normally stick with celebs of the same kind. Reality stars with reality stars, A-list actors with A-list actors. So it's random AF when they all step out their bubbles and become mates with each other.In our fave ever unlikely friendship, J-Law and Kris Jenner are always talking about how much they love each other. OBSESSED.