national-geographic
A pair of sockeye salmon mate in a British Columbia river. All Pacific salmon, including sockeyes, die after reproducing.Finding a mate can be exhaustingso much that some animals die after finally meeting that special someone. , or suicidal reproduction, in which animals concentrate all their reproductive energies into one bout of mating before death. , a tiny, short-lived Australian rodent. The mammal goes on a mad mating spree (sometimes as long as 14 hours), after which it suffers a fatal immune system breakdown and dies a ragged wreck. (You could call it a parental sacrifice: Antechinus males die knowing they'd spread their sperm far and wide.These animals have odd lifestyles: Females bury their bodies into a host, such as a solitary bee, and never leave. With no need for wings, eyes, legs, or antennae, the females retain juvenile traits, making them look like mini marshmallows.The only part of their body that protrudes from the host is the brood canal, an opening through which males inseminate the female and larvae crawl to the outside world. (Related: "Males, which live up to six hours, fly around looking for these embedded females, with which they'll mate and then die, Kathirithamby says. After the larvae emerge from the female, she dies too.These eels can take up to 20 years to mature, upon which they'll swim toward the Sargasso Sea. Though scientists haven't observed spawning, which they're thought to do at great depths, they have recorded pulses of eel larvae coming from that direction. This pair of praying mantids will die soon after reproducing. Occasionally, the female will cannibalize the male by biting off his head.After her first batch of eggs hatch, mothers first regurgitate food for newly emerged spiderlings and then let the spiderlings eat her, says Male spiders have two sperm-transfer organs, called pedipalps, which they insert one after the other in the females two sperm storage areas, Scott says. Male orb weavers of the After death, the males body hangs from the females genital opening, so other males have a tough time mating with that female.  often mate with females who have just molted, and therefore cant eat them. But if its an older female, she will eat him shortly after he dies, Scott says., a group focused on conserving India's forests and wildlife, made the video after the cub was found earlier this month still trying to nurse from its mother. A high-voltage wire left by poachers had paralyzed the adult bear. 6 poachers arrested for electrocuting a mother bear & her 10-week-old cub. The mother died while the cub was rescued & transferred to , in part because they are threatened by poaching and habitat encroachment. The bears have also been targeted by poachers for a regional tradition that involves A rod driven through the bear's nose is attached to a rope that is then hoisted, resulting in the animal's dance-like motions. Wildlife SOS claims to have rescued The rescued cub was identified as a male during treatment. Because it was taken from its mother at such a young age, it cannot develop necessary survival skills and will likely remain in captivity for the remainder of its life. "The young bear is currently extremely traumatized and will need to be kept under constant observation by the medical team, veterinarian Amol Narwad said in a Six poachers were later arrested for setting the electric trap, after sniffer dogs led the rescue organization to their home.  China Central Television, a state-run channel, a group of tigers run after a drone and eventually knock it out of the sky. The drone was reportedly part of the tigers keepers plans to keep the animals fit.But the videos fun value didnt last long. Several news organizations have since reported that the tigers likely live on a tiger farm in China. The country has only an estimated seven tigers in the wild, Reminder: China has an estimated *7* wild tigers left. Many more in this video = obviously a tiger farm. They'll be turned into bone & wine A tiger farm is a facility that breeds tigers like livestock. While alive, the tigers attract tourists who come to gawk at the animals and even take selfies. Cubs in particular are a draw, encouraging speed breeding in which cubs are taken away from their mothers at a young age, forcing the females to go into heat again sooner than they would in nature. Tigers are later slaughtered for the luxury and medicinal markets. Farms range from small operations to industrial-size facilities, like those in China. They may be promoted as zoos or sanctuaries, such as Thailands infamous Tiger Temple, a popular tourist destination that was Live tigers may be bought and sold to other tiger farms, where theyre used as props for tourists and as breeding stock, but most of the demand is for luxury goods and traditional medicine.Some believe, erroneously, that tiger bone wine, which is made by steeping the animals bones in rice wine, will impart the drinker with the animals strength. Sellers have found many ways to get around Chinas tiger wine ban, including simply taking the word tiger off the label. Bones are also ground into a powder and turned into pills, often sold as a cure for rheumatism. And tiger penis is said to be an aphrodisiac.Tiger parts are also used as a status symbol. Tiger rugs and necklaces with amulets containing pieces of tiger skin show off an owners wealth and prestige. Tiger claws and teeth are bought as charms, and meat is sometimes on the menu as a delicacy.In total there are believed to be 7,000 to 8,000 tigers on farms in Asia and Southeast Asia, compared to no more than ). There are also several tiger farms in South Africa. An estimated 5,000 to 10,000 tigers live in captivity in the United States, in backyards, roadside zoos, and private menageries, and there are more tigers in captivity in other parts of the world at a meeting of the Convention on International Trade on Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) agreeing that tigers should not be bred for trade in their body parts and saying that tiger farms should be scaled back. Numerous reports have subsequently shown, however, that both the domestic and international trade in tiger parts has grown.Proponents of tiger farms say they take pressure off wild populations. Most conservationists agree that tiger farms simply increase the demand for tiger products.If there was any indication that they led to tigers in the wild not being persecuted, we would have seen it by now. We havent, Kanitha Krishnasamy of TRAFFIC, the organization that monitors wildlife trade, Tiger farms help erase the stigma around tiger products, encouraging more people to buy them, and its believed that they fuel poaching of wild tigers. Some consumers believe wild tiger medicines are more potent than those from captive-bred tigers.Trade in parts and derivatives of captive-bred tigers perpetuates the desirability of tiger products, in turn stimulating poaching of wild tigers, Debbie Banks, of the Environmental Investigation Agency, a London-based NGO, told National Geographic in October.The Ocean Parkway Cycle Path in Brooklyn, which runs from top to bottom on the left side of this 1897 map, was one of the nations first bikeways. When you live in San Francisco, its not uncommon to see strange sights out your window. Once, I saw the mayor standing in the middle of the street, painting a bright green square on the asphalt., I later learnedthe inauguration of the citys first bike box, a designated space for cyclists to wait at an intersection. That was in 2009. Cycling continued to grow in the following years. By 2015, San Franciscans took an estimated 82,000 bike trips per day, and the total length of the citys bike lanes was 125 miles and growing.The popularity of cycling in cities around the country, advocates say, is an encouraging trend that reduces traffic congestion and air pollution and promotes healthful exercise. But its not exactly new.The maps in this post come from an earlier time when cycling mania swept the nation: the 1890s. The bicycle as we know itwith two wheels of equal size, among other featureshad just been invented. Bikes really took off in cities because they provided the first affordable private transportation, says Evan Friss, an urban historian at James Madison University. Horses were expensive, and cars, by and large, didnt exist yet., Friss writes that the bicycle gave middle-class people more freedom to travel when and where they wanted. It allowed them to get around the city more efficiently, but perhaps more importantly in an era of rapid industrialization and urban population growth, it allowed them to escape it.There was this great notion that on a bicycle you didnt need a plan, Friss says. You could start out in the city and end up at the beach or a mountain or just go see some foliage.Then as now, bicycle advocates pushed for road improvements, and for dedicated lanes and paths for bike traffic. Local cycling clubs sprang up around the country (Manhattan alone had more than 50), and in 1897, the League of American Wheelmen boasted more than 100,000 members.The most significant early bike path in the country was the Coney Island Cycle Path, which ran five and a half miles from Prospect Park in Brooklyn to Coney Island (its shown in the map at the top of this post). Completed in 1895, it epitomized the intent of many bike paths of the erato give urbanites an easy way to get out of the city for the day.Even grander plans were proposed, including an illuminated aerial bicycle highway in Chicago; a 40-mile toll route connecting Baltimore and Washington, D.C.; and even a transcontinental route between San Francisco and New York. None of these came to pass. Construction did begin on a proposed nine-mile elevated bikeway between Los Angeles and Pasadena (see photo below), but the project was never completed. on lists of the most bikeable cities. Last year it opened a new bike-friendly bridge across the Willamette River, debuted a $10 million bike-share program, and approved a gas tax that will provide $28 million over four years for safety improvements for cyclists and pedestrians.Portland had plenty of bike paths even back in 1896, as you can see in the map below. This 19th-century map is a source of inspiration for modern bike maps, says Matthew Hampton, senior cartographer for Metro, the regional government of Portland and its suburbs.Hampton is currently working on a modern map using the same 19th-century styling. Like the older map, it will include taverns as well as bike routes. That creates a design challenge, however.The current density of taverns is overwhelming at its current scale, Hampton says. Hes thinking of limiting it to brewpubs.The most common ones werent necessarily attractive, says Friss. Many of them were published by cycling clubs or bike manufacturers and used to promote cycling.Local clubs often published booklets, for example, that combined maps with step-by-step directions for various trips, along with advertisements for restaurants and other businesses along the way (not unlike the The cycling craze of the 1890s died out as suddenly as it started, but the rise of the automobile wasnt the main reason, Friss says. He argues that it was more of a cultural shift: Cycling was a cool new thing that became less cool when more people started doing it.The hypermasculine men who adopted cycling as a sport early on began to see it as less sporting as more women began to ride, Friss says. The wealthy people who formed cycling clubs and organized fancy promenades began to see cycling as less exclusive as poorer people began to ride.The current enthusiasm for urban cycling seems to have some staying power, Friss says, but it may not last forever. The bike movement has been tied to a broader urban renaissance in the last two decades, but such social movements come and go, he says. If the desire for city living starts to wane, or if autonomous cars change the way people get around, bicycles may once again fall by the wayside.Im excited about the current enthusiasm, but as an urban historian, Im suspicious that in 20 or 30 years well still be talking about bicycles the same way, Friss says. I hope Im wrong.This content was written by and is brought to you by our sponsor. It does not necessarily reflect the views of National Geographic or its editorial staff.Think of pasta and you think of Italy and a rich menu of mouth-watering dishes . . . Cannelloni, Ravioli, Macaroni, and more. Italy is the undisputed cultural heartland of pasta, exporting it as a central pillar of its cuisine that has become common in homes almost everywhere. There are over 300 different types of pasta, and more than three times as many names for them depending on your country, region, and even your town. But all true Italian pasta has one thing in common: it is made from durum wheat.Whereas pasta was once the preserve of the Italian nobility, today it is ubiquitous across society and the world. Indeed, as a low cost, easy to cook, and nutritious food that is also versatile and tasty, pasta is a popular option for people living on a budget. And that makes durum wheat an important staple crop both now and looking to the future.Every day the world has 200,000 more mouths to feed as we advance towards a population estimated to reach 9.5 billion by 2040. Feeding so many people without devastating the planets already strained natural resources is a global challenge, and one to which Syngenta is wholly committed.  is finding innovative new ways to sustainably increase food production by 20% without expanding the amount of land farmed. In Italy it is already making significant improvements to the farming of durum wheat for pasta.Wheat grown for bread is different to wheat grown for pasta. Cereal growers must meet stringent quality criteria according to the end-use of their crop: for pasta production durum wheat must have a protein content of 14%. However, strange though it might seem, Italy is struggling to produce enough good quality durum wheat that meets this criterion. Syngenta is therefore working with Italian farmers to improve both the quality and the quantity of their durum wheat production through a project called Grano Armando.Syngenta has brought together an array of technologies, from genetics to disease prevention, to create a specific cultivation protocol called Armando. This sustainably delivers very high-quality durum wheat, enabling farmers to grow more and better durum wheat for the production of pasta. The results are tangible: the projects 1,000 growers have experienced a 15% increase in productivity and an enhanced protein content of 14% as opposed to the Italian average of 12%.Central to Grano Armando is Syngentas establishment of a beneficial network across the pasta supply chain, connecting individual and often isolated farmers with seed producers and pasta manufacturers, including the flagship brand of Grano Armando itself. This co-operative collaboration is stimulating the creation of more suitable and more profitable product, allowing farmers to get the best out of their crop and earn a reliable income in a sustainable way. This in turn is revitalizing entire agricultural communities.It is only fitting that a pilot scheme for pasta be trialled in Italy: but Italy is only the beginning. Syngenta is developing Grano Armando as a scalable solution that could see the cultivation protocol distributed worldwide. With wheat currently the worlds second largest food crop after rice, and the worlds largest crop by acreage, the benefits of introducing or improving high-quality durum wheat on a global scale are obvious. By putting pasta on the plates of more people across the planet, Syngenta is making a positive contribution to the global efforts that will sustainably feed future generations, and feed them well.A liger, Zita, walks with her month-old cub at Russia's Novosibirk Zoo. Ligers are the offspring of a female tiger and male lion. Ever heard of a liger? Its the offspring of a male lion and female tiger. Theres also the tigon, which has a lion mother and tiger father. And the leopon, the progeny of a lion and a leopardnot to be outdone by the jagulep, a jaguar-leopard mix.Feline hybrids arent found in nature. Lions and tigers dont overlap in the wild (except in Indias Gir Forest, where until now no ligers have been found). And big cats in the same territory dont cross the species linetheyre not interested in each other, just as humans arent drawn to chimps.Instead, these animals are the offspring of big cats that crossbreed in captivity and they're destined to become curiosities in zoos and wildlife parks. While it might seem fun to see one of these oddballs in the flesh, advocates of big cat conservation say this hybridization has a dark side.With hybrids theres a much greater chance of the genetics being messed up, says Luke Hunter, who heads the wild cat conservation organization The prevalence of these problems in big cat hybrids isnt known: Because the animals dont exist in the wild, scientists havent studied them much.But many of the crossbreeds live healthy lives, and some have even produced offspringa female liger in a Russian zoo mated with a male lion and Its not known, either, how many of the various big cat hybrids exist, but Usman Masood, who has collected online reports of ligers and runs the website , are gold mines because of their size. The faintly striped creatures grow to about five feet tall and can weigh up to a thousand pounds, more than twice the size of their lion fathers and tiger mothers.Reports of liger births occasionally surface from countries around the worldin late January a Russian zoo  of a liger cub named Tzar. But ligerzoos.com posits that most ligers are in private hands in the United States. Accredited zoos frown on crossbreeding big cats. in Mulberry Grove, Illinois, of his two seven-year-old ligers, Hank and Charlie. Woody takes Hank and Charlie around the country as part of a traveling liger exhibit. Their size, he says, is shocking to people.According to Woody, the ligers' parents spent a lot of time together and eventually mated, which scientists say can happen when a lion and tiger live in close quarters and lack other options.Lions are tigers are separated by about seven million years of evolution, Craig Packer, director of the  at the University of Minnesota, previously told National Geographic. But they are still closely enough related that they can hybridize.Feline hybrids arent helpful to the genetic diversity of big cats and have no conservation value, says Rob Vernon, spokesman for the This liger, Bahier, was born at Arche Noah, a private zoo in Germany on the Baltic Sea. Big cat experts say that ligers have no conservation value.According to the association, zoos today are supposed to be arks for threatened animals and educate the public about conservation efforts. Propagating animals that specifically do not represent the normal characteristics and variation of the species creates a confused educational message, states the associations Conservation scientist Luke Dollar says that any crossbreeding between big cat species is unethical and is the result of greed or irresponsible breeding.I can think of no legit excuse for a liger or tigon to exist, says Dollar, program director for National Geographic Societys . If we want to recognize and honor big cats as they naturally occur in the wild, why would we possibly experiment in these completely unnatural and not biologically founded practices?While we know that lions and tigers have yet to get frisky in the wild, its certainly possible for two species to produce a hybrid in nature. Hybridization occurs among carnivores in the wild when the reproductive opportunities become really, really limited, Hunter says., the offspring of wolves and coyotes, number in the millions in the U.S. and eastern Canada. Deforestation, hunting, and poisoning of wolves in the east meant that they increasingly bred with coyotes spreading into eastern wolf territory from the U.S. Southwest.that melting Arctic ice will lead more than 20 marine mammals to hybridize. Already, grizzly bears moving northward into higher latitudes have been known to mate with polar bears. The result: brown-pawed, white-coated pizzlies.As thick as a "truck tire," the female was well known to local guides Juca Ygarap and Daniel de Granville, who took Candisani to her usual haunt in the Formoso River.They found her half-out of the water, entangled with a small male on the river bottomperhaps, Candisani thought, a post-mating embrace. He watched the pair for a few hours, taking some underwater photographs from about three feet away.I couldnt actually understand what was going on at first, Candisani says. "But then she dragged the males body with her when she went into the grass. (Though he took the photo in 2012, Candisani says he is publishing the photograph with National Geographic now because the swamps in which these anacondas live are under increasing threat by wildfire and the proximity of agriculture. Environmentalists want the swamps protected by a conservation unit.In early February, a large fire, probably started by lightning, took five days to extinguish, he says.At the time, the guides were astonished by the anaconda's behavior. So the photographer sought out the advice of anaconda expert , a biologist with New Mexico Highlands University who has studied the reptiles in Venezuela for over 30 years.Rivas has documented a few cases of cannibalism in anacondas, in which females have regurgitated mates after eating them. It's unclear if this female ate her mate; Candisani says they couldn't see her after she pulled the male into the grass. (The reason is simple: The male is good protein for an expecting mother, especially one who fasts the whole seven months of pregnancy.A full 30 percent of her bodyweight goes into making babies. Getting an extra seven or eight kilos of meat before you go into that stage isnt such a bad idea," he says.Rivas says Candisani's photos represent only the fourth reported instance of a female anaconda strangling her mateand the first caught on camera.Green anacondas are especially suited to sexual cannibalism because of the massive size difference between sexes.Males average around nine feet and females average 12, although up to 17 feet is common, Rivas says. Candisani estimated the snake he saw at 23 feet long, which would be unusual. (See "However, Rivas noted that the area where Candisani captured the photo, not far from Bonito City in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, is consistently wet.In areas with a strong dry season, [anacondas] can hibernate for months under the mud because life is hard, he says.But in places that are flooded all the time, they probably have a better food supply, and so might grow larger. (No one has reported seeing the snake since Candisani took his incredible picture, but he hopes that she's still out thereperhaps looking for another male.On February 26, lucky sky-watchers across South America and Africa will witness the sun turn into a dramatic ring of fire due to an event known as an annular eclipse.A solar eclipse occurs when Earth, the moon, and the sun line up perfectly so that the moon casts a shadow on our planet. However, the moon follows an elliptical orbit around Earth, and over time the distance between the two objects can vary. For sky-watchers, that means the apparent size of the lunar disk in the sky changes, too.A total solar eclipse happens when the moon is close enough to Earth that it seems to completely cover up the sun. Annular eclipses occur when the moon is farther from Earth and appears to be smaller than the visible disk of the sun, so it does not cover up our star completely.It's a hundred times bigger than Earth, reaches unfathomably hot temperaturesand makes sunscreen a really good idea. Take a breathtaking journey to Earth's closest star, the sun.This week's main event will be visible along a nearly 20-mile-wide path, which will first touch land in the southernmost portion of South America around local sunrise. The full ring will be visible over Chile starting at 10:35 a.m. local time. The eclipse will then move quickly through the Patagonia region of Argentina before racing across the Atlantic Ocean.The annular eclipse makes landfall again in Angola at 4:20 p.m. local time, travels over Zambia, and ends around 6:30 p.m. local time in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.While only people along the path of totality will see the ring, much of the Southern Hemisphere will enjoy the celestial phenomenon of a partial eclipse, when the moon seems to take a bite out of the sun.Viewers in most of Brazil, Paraguay, and Bolivia will be able to see the moon covering up to 40 percent of the sun, while folks in most of Argentina, Uruguay, and southern and equatorial Africa will see up to 90 percent covered.If you are using a telescope or camera, you can use specially designed solar filters over the front lenses to avoid eye damage. You can also watch with If you are clouded out or cant make it into the eclipse pathway, the robotic telescopes of astronomy outreach venture Slooh will offer a  will occur on August 21, when the moons shadow will completely blot out the sun in a path that cuts right across the continental United States.At approximately 72 feet wide and 245 feet long, the spillway acts as a drain for the Monticello Dam in Napa Valley, California. As water spirals down the spillway, it travels horizontally 2,000 feet before draining into nearby Putah Creek.Created in the 1940s to supply water for irrigation and drinking, the Monticello Dam services close to 600,000 people in the area. It can hold 526 billion gallons before excess water must be drained away.Kevin King, the water and power operations manager at Solano Irrigation District, helps oversee the dam's operations. He described the intended effect of the spillway as being similar to the drainage hole near the lip of a bathroom sink."As the water in the sink rises, it drains through that hole," says King. "But when it's less full, the water is stagnant."With the current forecast, King anticipates the spillway effect will remain for the next couple of weeks.When spillways are not properly constructed or are nonexistent, disastrous consequences can ensue. The  that occurred earlier this month in northern California was a result of poorly constructed and ill-maintained spillways. More than 180,000 people were evacuated over fears that the dam's weir would collapse and cause major flooding for communities downstream.Luckily for Lake Berryessa, its spillway has yet to see signs of deterioration, and it has become a popular sight-seeing spot for locals. The spillway has a number of nicknames, including the morning glory spillway and the glory hole, although King notes these monikers have become less common since the sixties. on the island of Runion, every day is like a glimpse of our planets violent youth: Chunks of boiling lava spew upward like molten fireworks, while rivers of fire cut across an ashen, constantly repaved landscape of gray.Sitting more than 400 miles off Madagascars eastern coast, the volcano has been grumbling for 530,000 years, producing extremely fluid, basalt-rich lava flows.In modern times, its been one of the most active volcanoes on Earth, earning its moniker peak of the furnace. Since the 17th century, the 8,633-foot-tall peak has erupted more than 150 times.Its no surprise that the French-held islands 900,000 inhabitants treat the volcano with caution. But thanks to drone pilot and Your Shot photographer Payet frequently photographs and films the volcanos ever-changing landscapes and pyrotechnic displays. Its uncomfortable, occasionally dangerous work: Sometimes, noxious belches of sulfur dioxide require him to pilot his drone while wearing a gas mask.