new-scientist
Fancy a coffee after that cigarette? Smoking makes you drink more caffeinated drinks, possibly by changing your metabolism so that you break down caffeine quicker, pushing you to drink more to get the same hit.at the University of Bristol, UK, and his colleagues who have looked into the smoking and drinking habits of about 250,000 people.Its impossible to do a randomised controlled trial (the most rigorous kind of scientific trial) when it comes to smoking, because it would be unethical to ask a randomly selected group of people to smoke. The next best thing is to study huge biobanks of health data. These biobanks contain information about peoples genes, diets and lifestyles.To explore the relationship between smoking and caffeine, Munafo and his colleagues analysed data from biobanks in the UK, Norway and Denmark. They were particularly interested in people who had inherited a variant of a gene that has already been shown to increase cigarette smoking.The team found that people who had this gene variant also consumed more coffee  but only if they smoked. British people with the same variant also drank more tea, although their Danish and Norwegian counterparts didnt. This is probably due to cultural differences, says Munaf. People in Norway and Denmark dont chain drink tea in the same way that people in the UK do, he says.The genetic variant seems to influence how much nicotine a person consumes. You can have zero, one or two copies  and each additional copy is linked to an increase in smoking of about one cigarette per day. Each copy also appears to increase coffee consumption by 0.15 cups per day.You could extrapolate from that and say that if you smoked 10 cigarettes per day more than the next person, you would be drinking the equivalent of about one and a half extra cups of coffee per day, says Munaf. He is wary of doing so, though, because the amount of nicotine a person gets from a cigarette will depend on the type of cigarette and the way it is smoked.The gene variant codes for a nicotine receptor, which is not known to directly interact with caffeine. This suggests that cigarette smoking increases caffeine consumption and not the other way around.The team have used a rather clever technique to establish causality, which normally you wouldnt stand a cat in hells chance of doing with an epidemiological study, says Theres a chance that cigarette smoking and caffeine consumption are linked through habit  that smokers tend to pair the two. But Munaf thinks that the nicotine in cigarettes might also influence the way a person metabolises caffeine. Its possible that smokers metabolise caffeine more quickly, he says. If that is the case, smokers might need to consume more caffeine to get the same effects that a non-smoker would experience.Its also possible that the apparent link between smoking and coffee drinking could be down to some unknown function of the genetic variant, says West. It evolved for a purpose, and it wasnt to smoke, he says.A relationship between smoking and coffee might make it harder for smokers to quit, says Munaf. If a smoker stops smoking, but continues to drink plenty of coffee, they might start to experience unpleasant side effects, such as jitteriness. This might be misinterpreted as a symptom of smoking withdrawal, says Munaf. His team plans to investigate this.OUT of the way, human, Ive got this covered. A machine learning system has gained the ability to write its own code., solved basic challenges of the kind set by programming competitions. This kind of approach could make it much easier for people to build simple programs without knowing how to write code. at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who was not involved in the work. They could build systems that it [would be] impossible to build before.Ultimately, the approach could allow non-coders to simply describe an idea for a program and let the system build it, says DeepCoder uses a technique called program synthesis: creating new programs by piecing together lines of code taken from existing software  just like a programmer might. Given a list of inputs and outputs for each code fragment, DeepCoder learned which pieces of code were needed to achieve the desired result overall.One advantage of letting an AI loose in this way is that it can search more thoroughly and widely than a human coder, so could piece together source code in a way humans may not have thought of. Whats more, DeepCoder uses machine learning to scour databases of source code and sort the fragments according to its view of their probable usefulness.All this makes the system much faster than its predecessors. DeepCoder created working programs in fractions of a second, whereas older systems take minutes to trial many different combinations of lines of code before piecing together something that can do the job. And because DeepCoder learns which combinations of source code work and which ones dont as it goes along, it improves every time it tries a new problem. that automatically fixed software bugs by replacing faulty lines of code with working lines from other programs. Brockschmidt says that future versions could make it very easy to build routine programs that scrape information from websites, or automatically categorise Facebook photos, for example, without human coders having to lift a fingerThe potential for automation that this kind of technology offers could really signify an enormous [reduction] in the amount of effort it takes to develop code, says Solar-Lezama.But he doesnt think these systems will put programmers out of a job. With program synthesis automating some of the most tedious parts of programming, he says, coders will be able to devote their time to more sophisticated work.At the moment, DeepCoder is only capable of solving programming challenges that involve around five lines of code. But in the right coding language, a few lines are all thats needed for fairly complicated programs.Generating a really big piece of code in one shot is hard, and potentially unrealistic, says Solar-Lezama. But really big pieces of code are built by putting together lots of little pieces of code.Wind kills. The most casualties from an asteroid impact wont come from the impact itself. The wind, pressure and heat caused by the crash are far more dangerous, no matter where the asteroid hits.Clemens Rumpf at the University of Southampton, UK, and his colleagues have calculated the mortality risk, should an asteroid hit a residential area. They considered asteroids that burn up completely, those that hit the ground, and those that strike in water. Surprisingly, the airborne side effects were the ones that cost the most lives., resulting in a powerful shockwave, tornado-like winds and a plume of fire trailing behind it. When it crashes down, it forms If the asteroid hits water (which is twice as likely as hitting land), it would create a tsunami, with waves reaching dozens of metres high. The farther from shore the impact is, the deeper the water and the taller the waves. from an asteroid impact, but the events are notoriously difficult to model. Rumpf and his colleagues have worked out that the continental shelf helps protect the shore by dissipating waves both at its steep edge and over its gentle beachward slope.What sets tsunamis apart is that theyre really the most far-reaching effect of all the impact effects, says Rumpf. A pressure wave or heat plume cant travel very far, and craters only form right at the impact site, but tsunamis can traverse hundreds of kilometres of ocean to hit coastal communities.A tsunami caused by the impact of a 200-metre-wide asteroid 130 kilometres off the coast of Rio de Janeiro, for example, could cause more than 50,000 deaths, with 75 per cent of those being directly caused by the tsunami and the rest due to high winds.But an asteroid over or in a city would kill millions. Most of those deaths would be due to wind as well, even if the asteroid did crash to the ground instead of exploding in the air.For an airburst, about 15 per cent of casualties would come from heat. In a direct impact, the effects of gusting wind and surging temperatures are joined by pressure waves, which can rupture internal organs.Only about 3 per cent of casualties would be caused by the actual impact or the earthquakes and debris that result, says the team. The group plans to discuss the results with disaster managers to come up with suggestions for preparedness.Luckily, large asteroids dont hit Earth often: an impact by a 200-metre asteroid is expected only once every 40,000 years. And an asteroid could fall anywhere, and most of the planets surface is unpopulated.Chances are that an asteroid hits the water, and even if it hits land its much more likely that it will hit away from populated regions, says Rumpf. These are very rare events, but with potentially high consequences.
We are in the business of detecting asteroids well in advance of an impact, so this kind of work is only really important if we totally fail to do our jobs, says A shape-shifting drone takes off like a helicopter and transforms into a plane in mid-air to fly all day on solar power. The drone is designed to provide affordable aerial surveys for farmers, so they can see where to irrigate and use fertiliser and The Solar Unmanned Air Vehicle: Quad (SUAV:Q) takes off vertically before unfolding with the help of lightweight powered hinges into a flat, winged aircraft. Its design makes it easier to launch than a fixed-wing drone, and means it can also hover during flight to get a stable view of the land below. It morphs back into the quadcopter formation to land vertically.The idea is that anybody can buy this and carry it around in their pickup truck, says Papanikolopoulos. has a wingspan of 2.1 metres and weighs just under 4 kilograms. It needs to be this big so that it can carry a multispectral camera for assessing crop health. The upper surface of the wing is covered in solar cells, yielding enough power for continuous flight during the daytime. It flies at an altitude of up to around 120 metres.The team has so far flown the SUAV:Q in both its quadcopter and aircraft configurations, and carried out the in-flight transformation in a wind tunnel. Over the next 6 months, they will test the transition during real flights, validating their computer models and ensuring its reliability in real-world environments.Papanikolopoulos says the team is already talking to commercial partners about bringing the SUAV:Q to the market, and hopes to make it for a cost of a few thousand dollars.A low-cost drone with greater endurance than existing models would be very helpful to farmers and businesses that oversee large areas of crops, says  at Harper Adams University in Shropshire, UK. The current range of VTOL [vertical take-off and landing aircraft] are mainly the multirotors, which suffer from short flight times in comparison to their fixed-wing counterparts.that they have identified VX nerve gas on the face and eyes of Kim Jong Nam, the exiled half-brother of North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un. Kim Jon-nam was killed in the Malaysian capital Kuala Lumpur on 13 February.Chemical weapons experts are mystified. I have more questions than answers at this point, says Richard Guthrie, formerly of the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. VX is the most toxic substance known  10 milligrams of the oily liquid on your skin, less than a drop, is lethal. But Kim took some time to show any symptoms, while the poison was handled by unprotected assailants, and didnt contaminate other people.The use of the chemical, if confirmed, narrows the list of suspects, however, to someone who has or can make a small amount of VX. It isnt hard to make, but the precursor chemicals are tightly controlled.VX has been used for assassination before, notably by the Japanese terrorist group Aum Shinrikyo, which made a small quantity and spritzed it onto the skin of victims using syringes.That is what makes Kims case so strange. VX is called a nerve agent because it inhibits the acetyl cholinesterase enzyme which breaks down acetylcholine, the chemical that transmits the signal to contract from nerves to muscles. If acetylcholine does not break down, muscles stay helplessly contracted, and victims die of Malaysian police have said two women ambushed Kim in the Kuala Lumpur airport and wiped something on his face. Kim himself to have reported liquid smeared on his face that burned his eyes, when he went to the airport medical station for help.CCTV footage shows a woman doing just that. But it then shows Kim walking apparently steadily to solicit help for several minutes, with none of the usual symptoms such as spasms or foaming at the mouth.The attacker was handling a cloth with no apparent protection, not wielding a syringe. The women are then said to have run to a washroom to wash their hands, where one vomited. Both are consistent with VX. But nothing else seems to have happened to them, even though they were apprehended soon after.Any splash of a tiny droplet anywhere on her body would have resulted in some symptoms, says chemical weapons expert The attackers might have been pre-treated with atropine, a drug that blocks the effects of VX. But the medical staff who handled Kim in the ambulance where he later died  with convulsions, which is consistent with VX but also other poisons  would not have been pre-treated.They should have been contaminated, which is common in incidents involving suchchemicals, but are not known to have reported any VX symptoms. The chemical might have been enclosed in capsules that only released VX after being smeared on Kims face  but again medics should have been affected.Moreover, if it was VX, the airport concourse should have been decontaminated, says Zanders. But Malaysian police It is also possible that North Koreas VX is losing its punch. It is thought to have been synthesised some years ago using precursors smuggled from abroad. Tighter controls on those chemicals may have prevented stocks from being replaced, and VX has a limited shelf life. Iraqs VX, found by UN inspectors after the 1991 Gulf War, To be certain, says Zanders, samples from Kims remains should be sent to a lab certified by the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons which enforces the chemical weapons treaty: there is one in neighbouring Singapore.Youre driving along and someone cuts you up. You go to honk your horn or make an aggressive hand gesture, when a virtual note flashes up on your windscreen: Rushing to the hospital. Your anger dissipates and you feel empathy instead. designed to reduce road rage by improving communication between drivers. In the US every year, 1500 people are injured or killed as a result of aggressive driving, says Wang.His prototype social car project puts a transparent screen in front of the driver on a section of windscreen that displays projected information from a smartphone, augmenting the drivers view without blocking it. The app flashes up information about other drivers using the system when the phones camera spots their cars. A special periscope lens attachment allows the camera to see cars in front of the driver while it is lying flat to project images onto the screen.At the moment, the camera recognises other cars by spotting a purpose-designed sticker placed on their rear window. But Wang says that automatic licence-plate recognition could be used in the future.One feature of the system, called CarNote, allows drivers to select a virtual sign to display in extenuating circumstances, such as going to the hospital or rushing to the airport. Symbols or text appear above their car as viewed by the driver through the windscreen. To stop it being abused, there would be a limit on how often each person could use it, says Wang.Another feature allows users to send Facebook-style likes and dislikes to other drivers. When someone gives way, you could give them a like to show your appreciation, and when someone cuts you up, a dislike. Wang even suggests that insurance companies could factor this into their prices. If someone gets a lot of dislikes, it could impact their rates.Findings from a trial suggest the app could reduce road rage. The system was used by 30 people in a driving simulation, in which they were faced with some cars that drove fast and frequently overtook other drivers and some that drove slowly.For half the participants, the speeding cars showed signs such as in a hurry to the airport and slow cars that got in the way indicated that they were searching for the right route. The other participants saw no signs. After completing the simulation, the volunteers took a questionnaire designed to gauge empathy. Overall, people who saw the signs were more empathetic and forgiving of the erratic drivers. The system did, however, also appear to distract drivers, but Wangs team is looking to resolve this with future versions. at the University of Twente in the Netherlands. But while the AR app facilitates communication between drivers,  will probably be able to communicate directly with each other without the drivers input on issues such as right of way, so its usefulness could be short-lived.Once you are registered, New Scientist will send you our weekly newsletter, as well as occasional relevant information via email from New Scientist about our content, services, products, events, offers and competitions. Please read our In addition, from time to time we work with carefully selected partners to offer news, offers and information that may be relevant to you. We take your privacy seriously and will always give you the chance to opt out of specific types of email. account holders. These articles are available exclusively to logged in account holders and subscribers. The editors selection can range from new features, opinions and interviews to fascinating content from the Once you are registered, New Scientist will send you our weekly newsletter, as well as occasional relevant information via email from New Scientist about our content, services, products, events, offers and competitions. Please read our In addition, from time to time we work with carefully selected partners to offer news, offers and information that may be relevant to you. We take your privacy seriously and will always give you the chance to opt out of specific types of email. account holders. These articles are available exclusively to logged in account holders and subscribers. The editors selection can range from new features, opinions and interviews to fascinating content from the  at Massachusetts Institute of Technology trained anAI to play the game using deep learning algorithms and then pitched it against ten highly-ranked players. The AI came out on top against every one of them. is a cult Nintendo series where players battle classic video game characters like Super Mario and Zelda. The aim is to knock out (KO) the opponent by sending them out of bounds. The , but Firoiu says it poses a different challenge for AI because you cant work out many moves in advance. You cant plan far ahead with  like you can with, for example, Go, he says. To add to the difficulty, the attacks you perform can be used against you by your opponent. AI. A couple of years ago, security researcherDan Petrowas challenged by a friend who said it would be impossible to make an AI that could defeat him at the game. I took that as a challenge, says Petro.Petromade a system called SmashBot based on his own experience playing the game. I directly programmed an optimum strategy into SmashBot, he says.-playing AI to the next level. Petro had already built the infrastructure needed for an AI to interact with the The researchers trained their AI using reinforcement learning. They first hadit fight the in-game AI, which players can battle in one-player mode, then improved it by making it play against itself.Finally, they took the AI to two tournaments and asked professional players to try to defeat it. The AI played as the popular character Captain Falcon, partly because this character doesnt have any projectile attacks, which the AI wasnt trained to deal with. The AI won more fights than it lost against each of the 10 high-ranking players it fought, who ranked from 16th to 70th in the world.The whole process was fast. After a couple of hours the AI was good enough to beat the in-game AI, and after a couple of weeks it could beat the top-ranking humans, says Firoiu., as computers excel at the fast reaction times that give players an advantage in this kind of game. Compared to other games, fighting games rely very little on long-term planning and very much on quick reactions, he says.The AI plays with a reaction speed of around 33 milliseconds, compared to over 200 milliseconds for humans. The researchers are considering restricting the AIs reaction speed to see if they can build a system that is strategically superior when playing at human speed.Meanwhile, the AI still has a fatal flaw that the top-ranking players didnt notice. If an opponent just crouched at the side of the stage, the AI didnt know what to do. It then killed itself, says Firoiu.This should act as a warning for researchers trying to apply AI to unfamiliar situations, says Firoiu. If an AI encounters something that its not seen before, it can fail remarkably and spectacularly.Its a hole in one! Bumblebees have learned to push a ball into a hole to get a reward, stretching what was thought possible for small-brained creatures.Plenty of previous studies have shown that bees are no bumbling fools, but these have generally involved activities that are somewhat similar to their natural foraging behaviour. to reach an artificial flower containing sugar solution. Bees sometimes have to pull parts of flowers to access nectar, so this isnt too alien to them.Loukola and his team decided the next challenge was whether bees could learn to move an object that was not attached to the reward.They built a circular platform with a small hole in the centre filled with sugar solution, into which bees had to move a ball to get a reward. A researcher showed them how to do this by using a plastic bee on a stick to push the ball.The researchers then took three groups of other bees and trained them in different ways. One group observed a previously trained bee solving the task; another was shown the ball moving into the hole, pulled by a hidden magnet; and a third group was given no demonstration, but was shown the ball already in the hole containing the reward.The bees then did the task themselves. Those that had watched other bees do it were most successful and took less time than those in the other groups to solve the task. Bees given the magnetic demonstration were also more successful than those not given one.When the bees were trained with three balls placed at different distances from the hole, with the two closest ones glued down, most of the successful bees that then did the task still moved the ball that was closest to the hole. This showed that they were able to make generalisations to solve the task more easily, rather than copying exactly what they had seen.They also succeeded when faced with a black ball after being trained with a yellow one, showing they werent just attracted to the specific colour.They dont just blindly copy the demonstrator; they can improve on what they learned, says Loukola. He thinks this cognitive flexibility could help the bees forage successfully in changing natural environments. This ability to copy others and improve upon what they observe, I think thats really important.Loukola also thinks the behaviour fulfils the criteria for being defined as tool use, which is normally thought of as the preserve of only a few  at Volda University College in Norway agrees. He says that people tend to look for simple explanations when small-brained animals do something, but consider the same thing a complex phenomenon when its done by vertebrates.In fact, he says, the same mechanisms may be at play in apparently complex behaviours of both insects and invertebrate  and tool use may not require as much brainpower as we thought.If you apply the same level of scrutiny to vertebrate experiments as to those done with insects, you quickly find that although something might at first appear complex, the same simple mechanisms we find in insects also are at play in vertebrates, he says.Bees cognitive abilities are of interest to artificial intelligence researchers, some of whom build computer models of insects brains to help learn how nature creates complex behaviour. Behavioural studies of insects are increasingly showing that you can do a lot with very limited hardware.The old-fashioned view is if an animal has a small brain, its not intelligent or smart, says Loukola. Our study shows its not true that small brains are not capable of this kind of cognitive flexibility.We just have not been very good at designing experiments that allow us to probe insect cognition very well, he says. Thats probably because it is so incredibly difficult to imagine how bees experience the world, and if you want to give them tasks they can succeed at, that is key. I think the authors here really succeed at taking the bees view of the world.