new-york-magazine
But not just any boat. Specifically, the Spirit of Mount Vernon, a three-story monstrosity of casino-style carpeting and damp furniture floating in the Potomac River, just a few yards from the Gaylord International Hotel in National Harbor, Maryland. They were onboard Friday evening for the Breitbart luau, held in celebration of the annual Conservative Political Action Conference which, in 2017, is 44 years old. Hawaiian attire optional but encouraged, the invitation, decorated with an illustration of a dead pig branded with the Breitbart logo, read. Mahalo!The boat had been set to depart at 8 p.m. sharp but, due to an overwhelming number of invitees who expressed worry about being trapped on a boat for an extended period of time with the people who invented Milo Yiannopoulos, the plan changed. The boat would stay docked from 7:30 to 11, and all who entered would be given a lei of fuchsia flowers and be encouraged to purchase a tropical beverage made with blue curacao from the cash bar.CPAC is the most famous conservative confab in America. Ronald Reagan, its attendees are eager to inform, spoke here thirteen times. And in recent years its been the place where fringe right-wing figures were laundered into the mainstream: its where Donald Trump gave his first major political speech, as well as a frequent stop for Ted Cruz, Sarah Palin, Ben Carson, Michele Bachmann, Mike Huckabee, Rand and Ron Paul and virtually every other modern conservative politician youve ever heard of (hell, even the ones you havent heard of: Jim Gilmore was next to me at the bar here earlier.) In the years leading up to a presidential election, CPAC is where the Republican primary field takes shape; its difficult to run without developing a name for yourself among the thousands of conservatives who spend between $150 and $5,000 to be here, and the strategists, pundits, and journalists who come to watch.But the speeches and panels about guns, abortion and the stealth start of World War III (a real panel that took place this week, in two parts over two days; the conceit being that the war has begun but few people have noticed) are not the main event. The parties are, ranging from your standard DC cocktail fare to the utterly deranged. In previous years, there was former Texas congressman, or any number of parties at the Breitbart Embassy (the name for Steve Bannons townhouse) featuring live music and Louie Gohmert and countless frat style hotel parties involving elaborate ice luges.The Breitbart party had always been the hottest ticket in town, with politicians, strategists, pundits and reporters all vying to get an invite, or figure out how best to sneak in these guys did seem to be having the most fun, after all. But this year, the year that Breitbart achieved its ultimate electoral triumph, something was off. Although word around CPAC was that security would be tight, the crowd in the Spirit of Mount Vernon was so patchy that party crashers seemed a welcome presence.CPAC in 2017 was in some ways defined by Breitbart. It was Breitbart, not establishment conservatives, who supported Trump throughout the Republican primary, long before it seemed possible he could be president. In the main hallway, the website had a sedan-sized booth where its well known writers, like the spherical Matthew Boyle, lingered and shook hands with readers. And Bannon, who departed the website to join the Trump administration as the presidents chief strategist, spoke on a panel with White House chief of staff Reince Priebus, an event moderated and granted legitimacy by Matt Schlapp, the president of the American Conservative Union, CPACs host. This was a departure from years past, when Breitbart was the scrappy outsider and it wasnt yet evident that the fringe right had any real power. In 2013 and 2014, Breitbart hosted off-site events called The Uninvited for those not welcome on the premises, like Ann Coulter, who was, it seems unbelievable now, deemed too controversial. I didnt like The Uninvited, Schlapp said, while introducing Bannon and Priebus onstage. Everybodys part of our conservative family.But like a family, not everyone gets along. With a controversial Republican in the White House, conservatism finds itself in the midst of an identity crisis. Establishment figures like Schlapp have been rendered irrelevant while Breitbart, with its newfound influence and staffers joining the administration, is attempting to mainstream itself by poaching from places like the And the new fringe? Well, the big debate this week was whether its poster boy, Yiannopoulos, had in fact advocated for pederasty. The various CPAC parties on Friday night, then, were like a boozy tour through this perilous terrain.God has his hand on America, the land of plenty, Dog the Bounty Hunter told me, and nobody is getting in American leadership right now that gods not allowing.He was standing in the back of the boat, leaning on an intricate wooden cane, his sunburned chest bursting through a shirt he barely attempted to button. His wife, Beth Chapman, a Hillary Clinton donor-turned  with a shockingly beautiful face, held court nearby. While Dog dispensed compliments to passersby (he told me I have bright eyes and ran his hands through Jezebel reporter Prachi Guptas hair,) Beth attempted to convince a young woman working for Project Veritas, James OKeefes undercover video outfit, to investigate something. Earlier in the evening, the couple had hosted a cocktail hour in the Gaylords Chesapeake suite in honor of Milwaukee Sheriff David Clarke, a Trump booster who some are attempting to draft for the Senate in 2018.Not far away, Nigel Farage, the British populist politician who campaigned for Brexit, was dutifully posing for selfies and smoking a cigarette. OKeefe, meanwhile, sipped his blue cocktail and walked around the boat with his camera crew for what he said was a documentary. At one point, he agreed to pose for a photo wearing a lei and holding a pineapple.Was this the party everybody had been trying to crash all those years? Guests began to stream out early in search of the next fun thing.A number of members of what was described to me as the new right  congregated in Shellys Back Room, a cigar bar on F Street back in DC. There was the host, Mike Cernovich, a social media personality who was instrumental in spreading rumors about Clintons failing health during the election, and Michael Flynn Jr., the conspiracy-minded son of recently departed National Security Adviser Michael Flynn. Before long, OKeefe was at this party, too, sans herbaceous perennial.Cernovich once proudly identified with the alt-right, but he said those days were over. The movement had been ruined, he complained, by neo-nazis like Richard Spencer, Im new right  its different. He sees himself in this group, he said, with Alex Jones, the conspiracy theorist radio host and founder of Infowars; Paul Joseph Watson, the Infowars editor; Tucker Carlson, the Fox News host, a choice that might surprise some; and Yiannopoulos, whom he continues to believe in despite his recent controversy. He was almost in the majors, he said of Yiannopoulos, but hell be back in a year.These were not, he was careful to clarify, members of the alt-right. That group, he complained, only had his initial support due to a misunderstanding. I didnt realize it was, like, a white, ethno-nationalist thing, he said. They lost it with the nazi salute.Asked if he would punch Spencer in the face, as some had taken to doing upon seeing him in public, Cernovich said no. Hes a cake boy, he explained. What did that mean? Soft like a cupcake.H.R. McMaster reportedly said that the conservative catchphrase is unhelpful since Muslim terrorists are un-Islamic.Ronald Reagan was the last president to skip the event, but that was because he was recovering from an assassination attempt.The Establishment candidate narrowly defeated the insurgent favorite of Sanders campaign veterans, then began to immediately seek party unity.Former Kentucky governor Steve Beshear is an out-of-work centrist representing a party thats energized on the left.A leaked document shows House Republicans mulling controversial ideas like ending Medicaid as we know it and a new tax on employer-provided insurance.It says citizenship in the Muslim-majority countries included in the ban is an unlikely indicator of a terrorism threat.Earlier in the day, Trump explained that the media isnt the enemy of the people  but the fake news media Kevin Hassett once co-authored a book imploring investors to enter the stock market  just before the dot-com bubble burst.It looked like Attorney General Jeff Sessionss warm-up act in loosening protections for all minorities.The president told CPAC the media shouldnt be allowed to cite anonymous sources, and suggested people shouldnt protest after an election.We will not answer to donors, lobbyists, or special interests  now heres another story about me answering to special interests.This may be the lowlight of a week that also saw him make an unhinged phone call to a critic that got recorded and published.We're sorry. You must confirm your registration within 48 hours of submitting your registration request. Please It was, as advertised, a very close vote, requiring a second ballot. But in the end former Labor Secretary Tom Perez defeated Rep. Keith Ellison and an assortment of dark horses with 18 votes more than he needed to There was some drama, as one dark horse, South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg, dropped out just before balloting began. He did not endorse either of the front-runners, but one of his most visible backers, Howard Dean, switched his support to Ellison. There was also grumbling from the Ellison camp when Acting Chair Donna Brazile announced the electronic voting system set up for the election would not be used out of fears of external interference. After the first ballot, Perez was just one vote short of the 218 needed, but Ellison was in striking distance with 200 votes.In the end Perez, who had a progressive reputation but had become the favorite of party centrists and loyalists to Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton, had just enough broad support to edge Ellison 235-200. The Minnesota congressman was very much the candidate of the Bernie Sanders camp, and of other Democrats who thought retaining and mobilizing the energy of Sanders supporters was critical to the immediate future of a party fighting Donald Trump. of Not big money, party for the people. But there was mostly silence in opposition to the motion to make the election unanimous.Now the unity gestures will begin, though you can be sure media, Democrat-friendly and -unfriendly, will be on the lookout for angry veterans of The Bern who are unreconciled to another victory for the Democratic Establishment. One source of disgruntlement may be a vote taken just before the balloting for chair in which a resolution , an appointed position. Ellison promptly provided Perez with a brief unity pitch, calling further factional conflict a waste of time and energy.The DNC is now going through the time-consuming process of electing its lower-level officers. But in the hallways of the Peachtree Plaza Hotel where Democrats meet, there will be a continuing saga of efforts made, accepted, or rejected to put this contest behind a party that needs a breather from any struggle for its soul.H.R. McMaster reportedly said that the conservative catchphrase is unhelpful since Muslim terrorists are un-Islamic.Ronald Reagan was the last president to skip the event, but that was because he was recovering from an assassination attempt.The Establishment candidate narrowly defeated the insurgent favorite of Sanders campaign veterans, then began to immediately seek party unity.Former Kentucky governor Steve Beshear is an out-of-work centrist representing a party thats energized on the left.A leaked document shows House Republicans mulling controversial ideas like ending Medicaid as we know it and a new tax on employer-provided insurance.It says citizenship in the Muslim-majority countries included in the ban is an unlikely indicator of a terrorism threat.Earlier in the day, Trump explained that the media isnt the enemy of the people  but the fake news media Kevin Hassett once co-authored a book imploring investors to enter the stock market  just before the dot-com bubble burst.It looked like Attorney General Jeff Sessionss warm-up act in loosening protections for all minorities.The president told CPAC the media shouldnt be allowed to cite anonymous sources, and suggested people shouldnt protest after an election.We will not answer to donors, lobbyists, or special interests  now heres another story about me answering to special interests.This may be the lowlight of a week that also saw him make an unhinged phone call to a critic that got recorded and published.We're sorry. You must confirm your registration within 48 hours of submitting your registration request. Please   three films with mostly nonwhite casts have never competed for Best Picture at the same time, a boon after last years #OscarsSoWhite fiasco  that voters may not have noticed something else noteworthy about this years race.) have we seen so many contenders showcase meaty female characters, stats certainly buoyed by the Academys decision six years ago to allow up to ten Best Picture contenders after decades of there being only five. is all but a lock for Best Picture, reinforcing an important message: The best movie of the year doesnt always have to be centered on a male protagonist.Since the first Academy Awards were presented in 1928, only 22 of the 89 Best Picture winners have featured a significant female character. (This includes movies like And despite the spike in gender parity we saw in 2010 and 2011, there have been years where female protagonists have been almost entirely absent from the nomination pool, including 2015, the year of , and that victory was less about the movies characters than director Rob Marshalls lavish adaptation of the 1975 stage production. Its part of a long trend. When the Oscars do reward female-driven films, its often in a musical  the biggest spate of such winners happened in the 1960s, when  last June  of the 683 invitees, 46 percent were female, and 41 percent were people of color. And this increasingly diverse, younger, and outspoken voting base could be the source of many of the most frequent criticisms of to the Academy on the final day of voting to make the case for why Barry Jenkinss film most deserved to win Best Picture.)Whatever happens on February 26, this years female-led Best Picture nominees simultaneously reinforce and buck data about the current state of women onscreen. According to  by the Center for the Study of Women in Television at San Diego State University, 29 percent of the highest-grossing films of 2016 featured female protagonists  sadly, an all-time high, and an increase of 7 percent from 2015  while women characters still only accounted for 32 percent of all total speaking parts. Gender stereotypes remained the same: Female characters were still less likely than male characters to be seen at work or portrayed as leaders.play in Oscar movies: characters who are defined by their lives work, not their relationships. (See , and many more.) And while many actresses have won the Best Actress Oscar for playing such characters  Julia Roberts for to name two  their nominated films have historically lost out to more traditional, male-focused fare. (In the cases above, it was to  on the ballot this year. Its the first Best Picture nominee in history to feature an ensemble of highly educated female characters  let alone a nonwhite cast  engaged in a heroic, professional pursuit. (The last contender with a comparably diverse cast was 2012s nominee Octavia Spencer used a pie made of human feces, instead of math equations, to make her stand against racism.) Add in the films giant domestic box-office haul  nearly $147 million at press time  and  likely Oscar victories, especially Stones for playing a woman whose creative aspirations are treated as worthy as those of her male love interest. This is an especially poignant theme at a time when many women in America feel under siege, and Hollywood itself is struggling to reconcile its own  when it comes to hiring writers and directors. If the Oscars really do reflect our cultures most urgent narratives,  placement among this years best movies sends a powerful message: Stories with female heroes matter, maybe now more than ever.Ronald Reagan was the last president to skip the event, but that was because he was recovering from an assassination attempt.I have had more stimulating conversation with this man than all my ex husbands and lovers combined.We're sorry. You must confirm your registration within 48 hours of submitting your registration request. Please As youve probably heard, Lin-Manuel Miranda could EGOT on Sunday. Of all this years Academy Award nominees, Miranda is the only one whos won the other three components of the trophy grand slam  hes got the Grammy and Tony for  song, right?), but there are plenty of other nominees who could get closer to joining the immortal club with a win Sunday night. Heres this years pre-Oscars EGOT watch:With just three nominations, Davis has more Oscar noms than any black actress in history. Davis has an Emmy at home for playing the first lady of Shondaland, . An Oscar win for the film adaptation would leave a Grammy as the only award shes still after. Does someone have some spoken-word she can perform? isnt expected to win an Oscar this weekend, but an underdog victory would put the musician close to an EGOT. Sting has an Emmy for an A&E concert special a little over a decade ago, plus over a dozen Grammys for his solo career (alongside the handful he earned with the Police). If he has a little involvement in the . Thats shockingly close to the number of trophies hes amassed in his real job, music, for which he has ten Grammys. No matter how grating his Oscar-nominated Ronald Reagan was the last president to skip the event, but that was because he was recovering from an assassination attempt.I have had more stimulating conversation with this man than all my ex husbands and lovers combined.We're sorry. You must confirm your registration within 48 hours of submitting your registration request. Please There are still a few nagging questions as we head into Sundays Oscar telecast, but the most pressing one is How big will  be? Damien Chazelles star-crossed musical tied the all-time record for Academy Award nominations by mustering 14, and it would need to win 12 to become   there are several tech categories where this modern musical would be breaking precedent by winning  I suspect its doable. Below, you can take a look at my bullish predictions, or listen as I discuss each category on this weeks big new episode of , too, but weve now narrowed things down to two films that are grabbing the lions share of votes. Still, though s to lose. Dont let the Film Twitter backlash and all those contrarian hot takes fool you: For most Academy members, In recent years, the Academy has proved more amenable to a split where one film wins Best Picture and another wins Best Director, so conceivably, Barry Jenkins has a shot to prevail here even if is a lock for Best Picture. Still, two things work against Jenkins. That split tends to favor directors whove made the most technically demanding film, and voters will deem that to be , which made a strong showing in the tech categories. Also, the fact that Jenkins is the heavy favorite to win the Best Adapted Screenplay Oscar clears the decks here for voters to reward Casey Affleck won nearly every critics laurel this season, but he lost the Screen Actors Guild trophy to , and thats significant. Since 2003, every SAG winner in this category has gone on to take the Oscar. This will be a nail-biter down to to the last second since Washingtons momentum has come so late in the game, but Id give him the slim edge over Affleck.  when people start wondering whether Isabelle Huppert can beat her. Every time a young ingenue leads the field, bored pundits posit that a veteran actress can take her down, but Annette Bening didnt defeat Natalie Portman in 2010, Emmanuelle Riva couldnt beat Jennifer Lawrence in 2012,  and last year, Charlotte Rampling had no luck against Brie Larson. Emma will take it, and you can take that to the bank., though hes vulnerable to an upset. Oscar tends to go for flash and a big finish, but Ali does subtle work and exits offscreen after s first act. Jeff Bridges fits the more conventional profile of a winner here  its a showy performance with a gangbusters final scene  but hes won before. Dev Patel took the BAFTA in this category, but Im not sure that will be enough. In the end, while Ali is highly deserving, he could prevail in part due to the lack of a strong rival. ? Im tempted to say yes, but Stone should thank her lucky stars she didnt have to deal with the optics of snatching this long-overdue trophy from Davis for some of her very best work.was adapted from a play that was never actually produced, voting bodies have come to different determinations on whether it should be considered original or adapted.) Put them head to head, though, and I think Barry Jenkins will win for  like a screenplay winner  its so dialogue-driven and the direction is unfussy  but when it comes to originality, which this category is meant to reward, . This is likely to be the most politically charged Oscar telecast in ages, and voters wont miss the chance to send a message to President Trump by voting for Irans  is the likeliest to win, but dont count out Academy members whod rather throw their votes to artier fare like . In the end, though, Im not sure either is strong enough to swing votes from the neatly edited musical numbers of  in this category is that its competing against itself (which means that even though the film got 14 nominations, it can only win 13 Oscars if it runs the table). pulled out a victory from the cinematographers guild. I apologize for sounding like a broken record, though: s magic-hour compositions, which add dreamy oomph to the home city of most Academy members, will be hard to beat.  has flash but tills the same territory that previous Kennedy films and projects have done to death, while  is a real feat of production design, and it never hurts to end with your biggest technical achievement fresh in voters minds.Okay, guys, this is the trickiest one. Sound Editing is all about the creation of sound effects, and musicals dont tend to get nominated here. They just dont! That  managed it is indicative of just how much the Academy loves this movie, and since its almost certain to win Best Sound Mixing  and a lot of Academy members still dont really know the difference between editing and mixing  I think it will end up taking both Oscars since the entire Academy votes on these categories, not just the sound branch that selects the nominations. The safer money is on the hellish war cacophony of The Sound Mixing category is meant to reward how those sounds are all assembled in concert with each other: Essentially, how you weave together the dialogue, music, and sound effects. Though Ive heard , the last musical to win Best Picture, took home the Oscar in the version of this category that existed then.), which conjured a convincing ecosystem (and countless sharp-tongued animals) out of an anonymous Los Angeles soundstage. are the only Oscar-winning shorts I care to support, but in the interest of helping you win your Oscar pool, I think the frontrunners here tend to be the biggest crowd-pleasers (though, since so few voters actually make time for the shorts, theyre pleasing an awfully limited crowd). Its likely between  and it would normally get my vote, but in this politically fraught year, I think more voters will reward the brave Syrian rescue workers of Ronald Reagan was the last president to skip the event, but that was because he was recovering from an assassination attempt.I have had more stimulating conversation with this man than all my ex husbands and lovers combined.We're sorry. You must confirm your registration within 48 hours of submitting your registration request. Please The heart of the claim focuses on Otto, a self-driving trucking company founded by former Google engineer Anthony Levandowski and acquired by Uber for $680 million in August of 2016. According to Waymo, Levandowski intentionally accessed Waymos servers and downloaded 9.7 GB of Waymo data and documents, copied them to an external hard drive, and then wiped his laptop in an attempt to hide his trail, all shortly before leaving to start Otto in January of 2016.Google claims this was calculated theft that allowed Otto (and later Uber) to steal trade secrets about Waymos Light Detection and Ranging (or LiDAR) system, which uses a 360-degree array of lasers to provide self-driving vehicles with the vital information of whats happening on the road around it. lays out an interesting timeline for the case. After Uber acquired Otto in August of 2016, Google decided to take a closer look at the circumstances surrounding   Levandowskis departure. As the charmingly mean-spirited complaint notes: Ottos purchase price was reported as $680 million, a remarkable sum for a company with few assets and no marketable product. Many saw the Otto acquisition as a way for Uber to muscle its way into the trucking industry, which The complaint states that Google quickly discovered Levandowskis alleged mass download from Waymo servers, despite Levandowskis attempts to cover his trail. The complaint also mentions that Google discovered that several other former Google employees who joined Levandowskis new company had similarly copied information about suppliers and manufacturing details. But, for whatever reason, Google held off any legal action.This changed in December, when a supplier accidentally emailed a Google employee an attachment meant for Uber. When the attachment was opened, it showed a schematic for Ubers planned LiDAR tech, which Google claims looked nearly identical to its own design  including an innovation by Google that allowed its LiDAR system to use only one lens for receiving information, which greatly reduces cost and complications in manufacturing a working LiDAR array.After filing a public-records request in Nevada (the state where a tremendous amount of autonomous-vehicle testing takes place), Google says it confirmed its suspicions on February 3. Three weeks later, it filed suit.Its hard to calculate the potential fallout of the lawsuit, but it has the potential to be devastating. Its a rarity in tech patent-infringement lawsuits, in that Googles complaint states it has forensic evidence of actual theft, versus just pointing toward the similarity between the two companies products. This could greatly increase the liability hanging over Uber (and could make Uber more willing to settle out of court). But the impact could be felt by Uber before the case is either settled or makes its way to a jury trial. Google is seeking a preliminary injunction against Uber, which would likely halt Ubers ambitious real-world testing and demonstration of its self-driving cars and trucks.Even more potentially disastrous for Uber would be the lawsuits effect on its long-rumored IPO, which many believe will happen in 2017. Uber, , is already facing a strong headwind thanks to a long press cycle that has turned #DeleteUber into a trending topic on Twitter, and made the company a byword for Silicon Valley arrogance, misogyny, and anti-worker attitudes. Prominent VC investor Kate Mitchell of Scale Ventures said on Tuesday that Ubers self-inflicted wounds over  in the workplace were already having an effect. Thats really starting to affect how we perceive the company and its public persona, she said to. I think its a challenge for them going forward toward an IPO. And this, of course, was before news of the lawsuit broke.Its also worth noting that Google Ventures, Googles VC investment fund, put $250 million into Uber in 2013. Googles senior vice-president David Drummond even sat on Ubers board for a time. Shortly after Uber acquired Otto, Drummond stepped down. Still, the investment remains, which presents the odd situation where a company owned by Google is suing a company in which Google owns a significant stake. The lawsuit could ultimately affect how much Google will be able to cash out on its investment if Ubers IPO is indeed affected.We reached out to Uber for comment, but the company has yet to respond. Well update when and if it does.You might have thought you were done with Uptown Funk video edits this side of 2014. You thought wrong.Justin Bai just wanted to know about the origin of the Rolodex emoji; instead, he discovered something bigger.The 24/7 stream is sponsored by the Icelandic Cat Protection Society and features a dollhouse full of kittens.We're sorry. You must confirm your registration within 48 hours of submitting your registration request. Please  is the only one Ive seen twice. Im not going to sing its praises again here  there are many others who have done it justice. But what I truly loved about the movie was the way in which it managed to transcend identity politics almost effortlessly. It never seemed to be straining to say that it was a groundbreaking movie about being gay and black in America; it simply told a story of being human in America. Part of that may be a function of how our society has shifted so that movies about the gay experience can now shrug off their otherness; but part too, surely, is because the director, Barry Jenkins, is straight. By all accounts he worked closely with Tarell Alvin McCraney, the gay man who created the story. But, like Ang Lee in , he didnt shy from what some now call cultural appropriation. He seized it. And so we got to see an authentically gay story through a straight mans eyes  and the view was beautiful. Sometimes, its precisely the tension in cultural appropriation that creates the greatest art  because a work of translation is, at its best, also one of empathy. Attempting to shut this cross-pollination down may come from good intentions; but its a fatal political constriction on what art can really achieve. In art, the only identity that ultimately matters is that of the artist. The whole point is to leave the rest behind., we saw a 7 percent drop in suicides among gay teens in states that allowed marriage equality between 1999 and 2015, relative to rates in states where gay marriage was still banned. Theres no causal relationship proven here  just a strong correlation  so a degree of skepticism is merited. (You can and should .) But it makes intuitive sense to me. Adolescence can be brutal for anyone  but its particularly isolating for gay or trans teens, as  captured so exquisitely. In the old days, as soon as you realized you might be gay, you understood immediately that youd never be worthy of the marriage your parents or siblings had. That knowledge often pierced the young psyche with shame and stigma  and wounded your self-esteem for life. More distressing: Almost by definition, many of these most troubled kids dont and wont acknowledge their feelings, and so are resistant to counseling. But with legalizing marriage equality, there is another way to reach them  by the law itself telling this invisible and silent group that their state sees them as equal to their peers. Its an anti-suicide measure all by itself  requiring no counselors, carried in the general atmosphere, removing or decreasing stigma.In that sense, you could call marriage equality a public health initiative. A staggering 28.5 percent of high school students who are sexual minorities attempt suicide each year. If marriage equality helps keep one of them from killing herself, or the trauma of trying, that would be a blessing beyond measure. That it might correlate with a decline in attempted suicides among all gay kids  the study assesses 134,000 fewer incidents a year  is a dream come true. Which is why marriage equality was never in the end about choosing politics. It was always, at its core, about choosing life.I dont know about you, but the abject terror and anxiety of the last few months have abated somewhat. This is not, I hasten to add, because we have learned much that should reassure us about this unhinged authoritarian in the Oval Office. The rhetoric has not exactly mellowed. Not long after he called the press the enemy of the American people, he called his deportation revamp a military operation, for Petes sake. Its just a matter of human endurance. You have to breathe at some point, to pace yourself, to find more spaces in your life and your soul where Trump cannot invade. There are only so many truthful hyperboles or tweet storms a person can withstand. My bodys habitual response after a period of intense stress and worry is to shut down with some kind of bronchial or sinus infection  and lo and behold, it has. Ive been spending the last couple of afternoons in a feverish oblivion. At some point, though, well have to find a balance between self-preservation and vigilance. You cant call in sick for four years.My only active constructive suggestion  apart from constant grassroots pressure on congressmen and senators  is to find a single issue on which to marshal the forces of the opposition. Release of the tax returns has always seemed the clearest candidate. The advantage of this particular issue is that it unites Republicans and Democrats. A  found that 74 percent of Americans want the returns released, including 53 percent of Republicans. It was a Trump promise, after all. And if pressure on him cant work, the Senate Intelligence Committee has the power to subpoena the returns in its investigation of the Kremlins hacking of the election. All we need is massive and sustained public pressure. So Im psyched to discover Im not the only one to like this idea. A former  writer, Frank Lesser, tweeted it out the day after the Womens March. And its on  a whole host of groups are currently organizing a Tax March for Washington and many other cities on April 15. Bit by bit, we can keep the pressure on.Im encouraged, too, by the polling. By any measure, its not good for Trump. Quinnipiac just put his approval at  or subsequent rally last week did him any good, either  except for with his base, which still gives him the Full Hannity. They wont budge, but if Trump slips toward the mid-30s, the congressional GOP may get colder feet  especially those in districts won by Hillary Clinton. in support for early Trump than they were for late Obama. They dont like chaos or incompetence  and theyve seen their fair share of both; theyre not going to like seeing peoples health insurance taken away from them. Nor do they enjoy unnerving scenes of mass deportations. They voted for Trump in part because they couldnt bring themselves to vote for Clinton but also, one suspects, out of a gamble that Trump may be good for the economy. If the economy goes south  and remember, Trump inherited a low unemployment rate and a long stock-market boom  they could leave in droves. Its vital we dont push these people away from the opposition by too dogmatic or leftist a stance. Its crucial to keep a calm, moderate, and sane voice directed at exactly this 15 percent or so; and to simply hold Trump constantly accountable for the results of his policies, especially on health care and jobs. If we cant remove him, we can neuter him. And for that, the coalition of opposition has to be as broad as possible. and CNN that there were constant communications between members of the Trump campaign and Russian intelligence during the 2016 campaign  and some others at the highest levels of the intelligence community appear to have  that those reports are grossly overstated and inaccurate (which is not quite the same, Ill note, as completely untrue). This is what we call a standoff  hence the Senate Intelligence Committees letters sent this week to several agencies, asking them to preserve all records and information on the Russian attempt to hack the election. Heres hoping they didnt wait too long. The whole affair may well end up   and investigative reporters. In ordinary times, Id agree with those concerned about the CIA operating to counteract its own president  even if only through leaks. But if theres a credible case that there was collusion between the Trump campaign and a hostile foreign power to hack our elections  well, the CIA knows their duty. They swore an oath to the Constitution, not this president. And potential treason is surely an exception that proves the rule.On the national security front, there is also some good news. The removal of Mike Flynn from the NSA is a huge relief to anyone worried about an impending World War III (most of us)  and it was achieved by the Washington . The elite press is not irrelevant! Lieutenant General H.R. McMaster now joins Mattis as the sane guardian of the countrys fraying alliances, and, more encouraging, has a  to superiors. Well see how that translates to running the unwieldy NSA and confronting Trump  but it sure is an improvement on Flynn.Then you have to note the tiny advances and momentary reliefs in the first month: mounting public support for Obamacare, and Republican disarray on repeal; Trumps capitulation on the One China policy; his acquiescence (so far) in the Iran nuclear deal; his exemption (so far) of the Dreamers from mass deportation; his keeping Obamas ruling for nondiscrimination against gay people in federal contracts; his deferral to the courts on the travel ban; and his selection of a sane, well-regarded judge to replace Scalia. For most presidents, these would be no-brainers. For Trump, theyre small mercies, shards of reality-based politics emerging among the chaos. At this point, we have to take what solace we can.H.R. McMaster reportedly said that the conservative catchphrase is unhelpful since Muslim terrorists are un-Islamic.Ronald Reagan was the last president to skip the event, but that was because he was recovering from an assassination attempt.The Establishment candidate narrowly defeated the insurgent favorite of Sanders campaign veterans, then began to immediately seek party unity.Former Kentucky governor Steve Beshear is an out-of-work centrist representing a party thats energized on the left.A leaked document shows House Republicans mulling controversial ideas like ending Medicaid as we know it and a new tax on employer-provided insurance.It says citizenship in the Muslim-majority countries included in the ban is an unlikely indicator of a terrorism threat.Earlier in the day, Trump explained that the media isnt the enemy of the people  but the fake news media Kevin Hassett once co-authored a book imploring investors to enter the stock market  just before the dot-com bubble burst.It looked like Attorney General Jeff Sessionss warm-up act in loosening protections for all minorities.The president told CPAC the media shouldnt be allowed to cite anonymous sources, and suggested people shouldnt protest after an election.We will not answer to donors, lobbyists, or special interests  now heres another story about me answering to special interests.This may be the lowlight of a week that also saw him make an unhinged phone call to a critic that got recorded and published.We're sorry. You must confirm your registration within 48 hours of submitting your registration request. Please  this year, the accolade made a lot of sense. While the film was the directorial debut for actor Macon Blair, hed had success in Park City before, having played the lead role in Jeremy Saulniers 2014 standout . And it had premiered to a rapturous reception on the festivals opening night, quickly becoming one of the most talked-about movies at Sundance  not only for its quality, but also because it seemed to engage with a feeling that many people were tangling with during the presidential inauguration that same weekend. (A common joke: that its title was oddly prescient.)But in one major way, the movies win was historic: The movie had been funded by Netflix, making it the first Sundance Grand Jury winner to belong to a streaming service. Now, the company is releasing the film to its 94 million worldwide subscribers Friday, allowing  to take full advantage of the buzz from its Sundance success. And the movie is a true Sundance success story, with the festival playing a major part in both its creation and reception., a Super 8 movie he made in the sixth grade with Saulnier in their hometown of Richmond, Virginia. When Blair began trying to make a career as an actor after graduating from college, he always had an idea that hed end up back behind the camera.I was always trying to make sure that I had parallel tracks going, Blair says. I was going on auditions, trying to get acting work, and at the same time I was writing scripts, trying to get writing work, and part of that was thinking about how in the future, I also wanted to figure out how to direct something., in which he plays a ladder-climbing skinhead named Gabe, Blair was approached by producers Anish Savjani and Neil Kopp, who, through their company , have produced films for a number of major indie filmmakers, including Saulnier, Kelly Reichardt, and Joe Swanberg. Savjani and Kopp asked if Blair had any scripts hed written, and when he said he had one that he wanted to hopefully direct, they told him to bring them the project first as soon as it was ready.started for Blair with a tone in mind, rather than a literal narrative. I knew I wanted to do something that was more or less a crime story, he says. Something that was pulpy and fun, a friendship story and a love story of some kind.He began to assemble the framework of a story that would support those elements, and arrived at the idea of a nurse whose home is robbed (which actually happened to Blair in real life) and decides shes going to find the criminals herself (which Blair did not). As guiding lights, he mentions Alex Coxs cult hit  (for the sleaze). Music also played a major role in defining the films feel and aesthetic; Blair even took the unusual step of writing specific songs into the script, a tactic thats usually discouraged for beginner screenwriters because of the uncertainty over rights. felt charmed: While most filmmakers were having panic attacks over whether their movies would sell to a distributor, Blair had sold his to Netflix before filming even began; he arrived in Park City already knowing the day it would be released. But in reality, the process was far from smooth.The shorthand version of it does sound like I just tap-danced into this room and was like, Hey fellas, give me some money! Blair jokes. And there was an aspect in which things happened in a very lubricated kind of way. But the larger picture is it had been a year before that of pitching it all over the place and having a difficult time.Even with filmscience onboard, financiers were concerned over Blairs status as a first-time director, and they were nearing an impasse: The window for production was fast approaching, but they still hadnt secured the necessary money or cast to move forward. Just then, another producer, Mette-Marie Kongsved of XYZ Films reached out to ask Blair if he had any scripts she could read. When he sent her They just very simply asked me, Who do you want to play the leads? Blair says. That had been a hurdle for us, because I wanted Melanie [Lynskey] and Elijah [Wood], and they were not on the list of folks that were going to get the financing from some of these other places. And they just said, Great! Lets go with that. So believe me, after a year of having that same conversation, to have them react like that, it absolutely felt charmed.After a year of hearing no, they were in preproduction literally weeks later, with Lynskey starring, Wood playing her oddball neighbor turned sidekick,  as one of the villains, and David Yow  the lead singer of legendary rock band the Jesus Lizard  as the main antagonist. According to Ian Bricke, Netflixs director of Global Content Acquisition, hed had his eye on Blair since 2004, when the actor appeared in a short film of Saulniers that played a film festival where he sat on the jury. Bricke kept track of Blairs career, and says he enjoyed his subsequent scripts; producing the movie was an easy decision.For us, were always looking to find those films that punch above their weight for smaller, underserved audiences. You hope that for at least some of the folks that will see a movie like this on Netflix, it will be their new favorite movie, Bricke said in an email to Vulture. Its something totally new with some of the DNA of things that we know people are looking for  mischief, mayhem, a badass but very real female lead. In combination with the filmscience guys who have a great history of making really good films in a certain budget range, it was an easy decision to jump in on this one even though Macon was a first-time director. Also, the fact that we were able to cast it right away  Melanie Lynskey and Elijah Wood signed on because of Macon and his track record  was a huge plus.Production was a smooth ride; Blair relied on a veteran assistant director to help compensate for his inexperience. He compares the experience to a summer camp, not least because he made sure to follow a priceless piece of advice: Make sure that the crew is fed well. The finished film successfully achieves Blairs intentions: Its a tonal roller coaster that shifts from low-key drama to broad comedy to gritty crime to borderline horror, all handled with equal comfort.I enjoy having something be carrying along at a certain temperature and then suddenly shift into something totally different, Blair says. If I make a mixtape for somebody, I will tend to put some, like, really evil black metal next to something like the Carpenters. To me, it feels totally fine.The alienation thats at the heart of Lynskeys character gives the story a central core, and made it feel especially timely. At the festival, Blair, Lynskey, and Wood  the case. I think Ruths mantra in the movie was that she wants people to stop being assholes, and Ive felt like that recently, Lynskey told Vulture.In writing it, anytime I would take a break and look at the news, it would seem like a steady cascade of disastrous things, and I think that informed Ruths worldview, Blair explained. Perhaps its not totally correct, but I think a lot of people do probably feel, I know I do, that things are coming apart at the seams, and I think thats what I was trying to have her feeling, at least at the start of the movie.If you felt that way on the weekend of the inauguration, those feelings probably havent gone away just yet, which means that is likely to feel just as relevant to Netflix subscribers who see it pop up on their home screens as it did to the shivering hordes at Sundance. That, of course, is the selling point of working with Netflix, aside from the fact that their pockets are deeper than just about anyone elses: What you sacrifice in the initial burst of a theatrical release, you make up for in potential omnipresence.Of course, a theatrical release is awesome, and I grew up falling in love with movies well before streaming and all that stuff came about, but when I really look at the advantages  going to see a movie in a theater, on a big screen, thats kind of irreplaceable, Blair says. On the other hand, if this movie were to come out on an opening weekend, being what it is, and its supposed to live and die by how many people are going to get out of the house and go see it between Friday and Sunday, then its just going to vanish. No ones going to go see that movie, and its just going to disappear and never be known about. The way its going to happen now is its going to be all over the fucking world, and its going to be there forever, or until China shuts down the internet., which he co-wrote with director Evan Katz. And he hasnt left acting behind, either: Blair has a part in , Steven Soderberghs return to filmmaking as well as some other roles lined up. You cant put all your eggs in one basket, after all. When China does shut down the internet, movie theaters will be all well have.Ronald Reagan was the last president to skip the event, but that was because he was recovering from an assassination attempt.I have had more stimulating conversation with this man than all my ex husbands and lovers combined.We're sorry. You must confirm your registration within 48 hours of submitting your registration request. Please  could be taking over at her brand. Whether or not thats happening, the designer reveled in the extra attention all that talk has afforded, and she delivered a show that put an empowerment spin on the quintessential After a spate of pre-show Instagram videos in which some of the models repeated phrases like strong, sexy, powerful and showed off their power poses, the lights went down and a voice-over repeating the word  began to resound through the stadium venue. Versace has touched on this theme before  for example,   but emphasized it more explicitly this time around with clothes splashed with all-caps messages of EQUALITY, LOYALTY, COURAGE, and UNITY.Also present were some of her favorite glamazons: Gigi and Bella Hadid, Cat McNeil, Behati Prinsloo, and  Imaan Hammam, with some models sporting rainbow-hued extensions. A classic super moment came from Amber Valletta, who closed the show (and clutched a white bandana during the finale). And This season, slogans replaced the designers beloved logos, for the most part. There were no Medusa insignia in evidence  instead we saw subtle The slogans aside, the most empowering element of the collection was its emphasis on real clothing, like a sharp purple pantsuit that evoked the 80s, but wasnt too costumey, and relaxed, low-slung trousers. The sporty elements that have found their way into recent collections were here in full force, on neon parkas and wet-suit-style tops.  This is about as down-to-earth as these glamazons get. We're sorry. You must confirm your registration within 48 hours of submitting your registration request. Please Its not news that America now has a president who will roll back civil rights and endorse bigotry. This is a White House, let us not forget, that refused to either remember or condemn anti-Semitism when purporting to . But nonetheless we did learn a little bit more about both Trump and his administration from this chilling decree.We received confirmation (if there were any doubt) that Attorney General Sessions was lying when he made a big show of denying (or at least trying to cover up)  during his Senate hearings. Discarding the rights of transgender students is clearly just a warm-up act for a Justice Department that will work hard to dismantle the rights of other minorities  including the voting rights of African-Americans and any others who might threaten GOP rule at the ballot box. So radical is Sessions that even a hard-right ideologue like DeVos can seem relatively moderate next to him  though only up to a point. Once the Sessions edict prevailed, she We also learned that all this talk of members of Trumps family serving as moderating forces on his worst impulses is hooey. Melania Trump had claimed that her cause as First Lady . That was a lost cause before her husband took office  his entire career in business and politics has been a cavalcade of bullying  but now that he has institutionalized bullying as president, shes an accessory to the crime. (No wonder she  intervened to get Daddy to back down from his contemplated reversal of President Obamas anti-discrimination protections for LGBT Americans, either stayed silent or had no influence this time. Trump wasnt even loyal to poor Jackie Evancho, the 16-year-old singer who risked ridicule by performing at his Inaugural and has a transgender sister: Evancho was reduced to  this week. Equally impotent is Caitlyn Jenner, who pimped for Trump during the campaign, and who could be found yesterday on Twitter releasing a jocular, tone-deaf video reassuring transgender kids they have nothing to fear and  to discuss his betrayal of his pre-election stand that transgender people should have the right to use whatever bathroom . Her protest is too tame, too late, and too tainted by her previous Trump sycophancy to aid young transgender Americans who now may be more vulnerable than ever.Sessions aside, its not clear that any cabinet officer has much sway in an administration run by a tight non-cabinet inner circle, most notably Steve Bannon and Kushner. Tillersons month at State has been . He has had no discernible effect on foreign policy (to the extent there is a final policy). His attempt to hire his own deputy, Elliot Abrams, ended in embarrassment when the White House blackballed Abrams Tillersons visit to Mexico this week, accompanied by Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, was nothing if not a public confirmation of his irrelevance. Even as he was saying all the appropriate things about the friendship between the United States and Mexico, his boss was back in Washington slurring Mexico once again as a conveyor belt for criminals, toying with the notion of cutting back American aid to Mexico to pay for the wall, and readying a new anti-immigrant edict that would be as toxic to Mexicans as to Muslims. Poor Kelly had to step to a microphone to specifically contradict Trump, promising that there would be no mass deportations of illegal immigrants and  H.R. McMaster  will soon have to put their balls into the same escrow account as Betsy DeVoss spine.This dog-and-pony show was meant to show that these two rivals for White House turf were pacific colleagues, and that therefore all press reports saying otherwise are fake news. The rare glimpse of Bannon in action revealed two things about him: (1) He could roll over the milquetoast clerk Priebus anytime he wanted to; (2) He looks so unhealthy he may not be around long enough to be on hand for that showdown. was a senior editor at Bannons Breitbart News. Yiannopoulos had also been on the bill at the CPAC conference until the world suddenly rediscovered a taped appearance in which he spoke with genuine feeling about the virtues of pedophilia for underage boys. Presumably Bannon knew of his senior editors thoughts on that topic  that incriminating public video dated back to early 2016. So far Bannons own position on pedophilia remains unknown.H.R. McMaster reportedly said that the conservative catchphrase is unhelpful since Muslim terrorists are un-Islamic.Ronald Reagan was the last president to skip the event, but that was because he was recovering from an assassination attempt.The Establishment candidate narrowly defeated the insurgent favorite of Sanders campaign veterans, then began to immediately seek party unity.Former Kentucky governor Steve Beshear is an out-of-work centrist representing a party thats energized on the left.A leaked document shows House Republicans mulling controversial ideas like ending Medicaid as we know it and a new tax on employer-provided insurance.It says citizenship in the Muslim-majority countries included in the ban is an unlikely indicator of a terrorism threat.Earlier in the day, Trump explained that the media isnt the enemy of the people  but the fake news media Kevin Hassett once co-authored a book imploring investors to enter the stock market  just before the dot-com bubble burst.It looked like Attorney General Jeff Sessionss warm-up act in loosening protections for all minorities.The president told CPAC the media shouldnt be allowed to cite anonymous sources, and suggested people shouldnt protest after an election.We will not answer to donors, lobbyists, or special interests  now heres another story about me answering to special interests.This may be the lowlight of a week that also saw him make an unhinged phone call to a critic that got recorded and published.We're sorry. You must confirm your registration within 48 hours of submitting your registration request. Please 