techradar
MWC 2017, or Mobile World Congress 2017 to give it its full name, is the worlds biggest phone show, and this year its happening from February 27 to March 2, so there's really not long to wait.Many of 2017s most high-profile handsets are likely to be announced over the course of the show, including the ; but its not just phones that well see, with tablets, smartwatches and more likely to be on show too.Weve collected all the news, rumors and speculation on what were expecting to see at MWC 2017, so read on below for our constantly updated guide to what to expect  and what we want to see.The LG G6 will launch at MWC 2017, with LG holding a press conference on February 26 to reveal the phone.Thing is, there may not be a whole lot to announce as LG has already confirmed a host of G6 details ahead of the launch event.We already know the LG G6 will have a 5.7-inch QHD+ FullVision display with an 18:9 aspect ratio, a metal frame, dust- and water-resistant body, dual 13MP rear cameras and the new LG UX 6.0 interface. only launched fairly recently, but Sony often brings out multiple high-end phones in a single year, and we did get the Rumors suggest the highest-end of Sony's upcoming phones will have a 5.5-inch 4K screen, a Snapdragon 835 chipset and 4GB or 6GB of RAM, though a In which case the highest end Sony phone on show could be the next one down, which will apparently have a 5.5-inch QHD screen, 4GB of RAM and either a Snapdragon 835 or a Snapdragon 653 chipset.Further down the list there's a phone apparently launching with a 5.2-inch 1080p screen, 4GB of RAM, 64GB of storage, a 23MP main camera and a 16MP front-facing one, and a handset listed as having a 5.0-inch 720p display, 3GB of RAM, 32GB of storage, a 16MP rear camera and an 8MP front-facing one.It's possible that one of these is the Xperia XA 2, which is also rumored to be coming to MWC 2017. The below render shows off the apparent design, and it looks much like the original It looks like it will launch in red, gold, silver and blue while using USB-C technology for charging and data transfer.A new Samsung Galaxy flagship is often the highlight of MWC, but this year it seems we'll have to go without, as the company has  coming from Samsung this year for a start, though they probably won't arrive until late 2017 if at all., a metal body, a fingerprint scanner and a dual-lens camera, plus potentially 6GB of RAM, 256GB of storage and an octa-core Kirin 960 chipset.Rumors about the phone are starting to build though, with talk of a 5.5-inch QHD edge-to-edge screen, a metal body, a Snapdragon 835 chipset, a 12MP camera and a big 3700mAh battery.Those specs would make for a true top-end phone, but we're also hearing more out there rumors that could make the HTC 11 extra special if they're accurate. These include talk of a massive , which allows you to interact with the handset by swiping or tapping the metal frame along the edge of the phone.Possible interactions include tapping to take a picture, or swiping to adjust the volume or change the brightness.Now under the watchful eye of Lenovo, the Motorola brand has enjoyed the past few years, tearing up the budget end of the market and more recently making a convincing play at the high-end as well with its There could be even more phones (and perhaps wearables as well) on the cards too with Motorola sending out a save the date invite for an event on Sunday, February 26 in Barcelona.The latest rumors suggest it will be time to see the budget line of Motorola devices. Expect to hear word of the Yes, you read that right - Nokia. The phone division of the famous brand is now owned by HMD, and it The invite says we'll see the 'next exciting chapter' from Nokia - and while it doesn't go into detail about what exactly that means, we're hoping for a few new smartphones with Android on board., and rumors of a flagship Nokia 8 handset are doing the rounds online - so we're keeping our fingers crossed for at least two new smartphones bearing the legendary name.Along with a selection of high-profile flagships were sure to see several low-end to mid-range phones, as well as high-end ones from less well known brands.HTC and LG both unveiled several handsets at MWC 2016, while Alcatel, Microsoft, Xiaomi, Meizu and HP also had phones on show. We wont necessarily see the same selection of brands in 2017, but wed expect a wide range of handsets will be present.While MWC tends to mostly be about the phones, thats not all that gets announced, with tablets, VR headsets, smartwatches and other devices also often revealed.We've covered what we expect to see, but there's plenty more that we want to see and the following five things top our list.It feels like we say this every year, but were going to keep saying it until it happens, and it actually might happen this year, as Samsung is rumored to be launching There have been foldable concept and prototype phones popping up for years and with curved displays now a mainstream thing this is the obvious next step. If a commercially available folding phone launches at MWC it could easily be one of the highlights of the show.This is the other thing were always wishing for, and while the occasional handset will come along that can stretch to two days of life, such phones are few and far between.Hopefully at MWC 2017 well see high-profile handsets that put a long-lasting battery ahead of ever slimmer designs. Wireless and fast charging have become more common features in recent years, but theyre no substitute for a battery that simply doesnt need charging as often.4K screens on smartphone sized displays are unnecessary for general use, but with Samsung pushing its  and many smartphone makers having VR headsets of their own, its clear that virtual reality is going to become an increasingly big part of the smartphone experience, and when youve got a phone strapped to your face every pixel helps.MWC 2017 will only be as memorable as the phones that make an appearance, so it would be great to see a wide range of flagships. This would also give prospective buyers a clear view of their options, rather than making them wait for other flagships to be announced later in the year, or risk missing out. and the dormant Nexus range theyre the biggest players in Android tablets. Were not particularly expecting one, but it would be a nice surprise.In one of the first big legal battles to hit the growing self-driving car sector, Alphabet-owned Waymo just filed suit against Uber and Otto, a self-driving truck company, alleging the defendants stole its valuable trade secrets. as a subsidiary under Google's parent company Alphabet, claims Anthony Levandowski, a former Google employee, downloaded more than 14,000 files of highly confidential and proprietary information before he resigned to co-found Otto. says Levandowski went to extraordinary lengths to accomplish the mass download, which, among other items, contained designs for a custom LIDAR circuit board.The circuit board is the canary in this case; Waymo apparently learned about the theft when it was inadvertently copied on an email from one of its LIDAR parts suppliers. The email had an attachment purporting to show an Uber LIDAR system, but Waymo recognized the design as its own.The filing says Waymo's LIDAR can pick up hazards a human may not detect, and calls its sensors the most advanced and cost-effective around. It credits its LIDAR for allowing one of its steering-wheel-and-foot-pedal-less cars to complete a fully autonomous journey on public roads.Levandowski wasn't alone in downloading Waymo files; the company alleges other former employees stole its trade secrets, then subsequently went to work at Uber and Otto.In the filing, Waymo calls Uber and Otto's actions a "calculated theft", one that "reportedly netted Otto employees over half a billion dollars and allowed Uber to revive a stalled program, all at Waymo's expense." Waymo wants a jury trial, and ultimately is seeking to stop Uber and Otto from using its self-driving technology any further as well as the return of all stolen information and compensation.Obviously, if Waymo wins, Uber's autonomous vehicle efforts would be gravely impacted. Those have included launching self-driving cars as part of its ride-sharing service in select markets.A long court battle that drags on for years might be difficult for Waymo to weather, though of course if the allegations are true and Uber and Otto are found at fault, Waymo would no longer have to compete against the very technology it developed.We've asked Uber for comment on the lawsuit and allegations, and will update this story if we hear back.Spring 2017 will see Samsung launch its new so-called QLED TV series  the Q9, Q8, and Q7 Series  which are armed with metal quantum dots, better viewing angles and deeper black levels. They claim to be the only TVs that can show and are up to twice as bright as Samsung's 2016 SUHD TVs with a peak brightness of 1,500 to 2,000 nits.But it seems like every year, TV manufacturers make the claim that last years TVs were generally OK, but this years TVs are the best thing ever made. Its confusing at times, and downright disheartening, too.Heres what we want to know: Is this a 'major paradigm shift in the visual display industry', as claimed by Samsung's President of the Visual Display Business, HyunSuk Kim, or just Samsung's attempt to wrest back some momentum sinceWith all other major TV brands going to OLED in 2017, can Samsung stand alone in breathing new life into ageing LCD TV tech? And, moreover, what if, anything, does QLED even mean? Let's explore the TV technology together.It's a bit of an enigma, to put it lightly. Literally QLED means  or we suppose it means  quantum dot light-emitting diode (QLED, not to be confused with ), but this Samsung-baked concept is basically just the latest set of enhancements to the same quantum dot technology that the company has been working on for the past few years.Technically speaking, Samsung's QLED TVs are not QLED at all, well, at least in the way that we understand the term. A 'proper' quantum light-emitting diode element emits its own light  the clue is in the name  whereas Samsung's latest TVs use a separate LCD backlight (and an edge-lit backlight, at that) just like any other LED-LCD TV. So where the QLED moniker comes from, we're not sure.Its complicated, but hang in there with us. So, to start, all QLED TVs have a quantum dot filter. This year, theres a new refined aluminium compound that help make the dots more efficient (and therefore brighter) and more effective at passing pass light through, which creates wider and more accurate colour.So what is a quantum dot filter exactly? Its a film of tiny crystal semi-conductor particles that can be precisely controlled for their colour output, which replace the red, green and blue colour filters that old TVs used.Samsung says that its QLED TVs use the new filters to display 100% coverage of the DCI/P3 color space (read: much deeper black levels and sparklingTheyre so bright, in fact, that Samsung's QLED TVs can manage anywhere between 1500 nits to 2000 nits brightness. Considering 1000 nits is needed to produce HDR, that's proper bright, though exactly how anyone could stand the glare of 2000 nits, we're not sure. Sunglasses, anyone?While the advances in brightness are intriguing, Samsung claims that the new QLED TVs have a newly designed pixel panel structure to allow better off-axis viewing. For a living room environment, that could be QLED's big selling point.Beyond the 'paradigm shift' hyperbole of Samsung's marketing, it's really important to understand that QLED isn't really anything new at all. In fact, it's really nothing more than the latest  possibly among the last technically possible  tweaks to existing LED-LCD technology that's dominated bigscreen TVs for the last decade. QLED's innovations  deeper blacks, better colours and wider viewing angles  tackle three traditional problems of LED and LCD technology, but they're the same problems that are addressed year in, year out by TV makers. Only upcoming reviews will reveal if, in fact, QLED is a significant step forward from traditional LED-LCD screens but chances are good that we'll see some real improvements in these areas with Samsung's new sets.. The latter uses pixels that emit their own light, but OLED displays are manufactured only by Samsung's arch-rival LG, and now used byThere's no doubt that QLED, for now, has an advantage in terms of brightness (so in theory may better handle HDR content  though might just as easily overcook it), but if you're looking for a 'paradigm shift' in picture quality and the next-gen display technology, OLED is still the frontrunner. The latter uses individually lit pixels to achieve better contrast ratio and richer blacks that LED-LCD will never be able to hit, quantum dot filter or no. are essentially the same thing; the new messaging is more about marketing than technology, although the jump from 1000 nits on the top-end SUHD TVs to 1,500 to 2,000 nits on the flagship QLED TVs is perhaps more revolutionary than it seems at first. Put simply, for a buying public still getting to grips with what UHD is, SUHD just proved too confusing, so Samsung has dropped it. (It also probably didn't help that the 'S' in SUHD didn't really mean anything ... although we're not convinced that QLED is much clearer.)There are three QLED Series for 2017  surprisingly all edge-lit local dimming LED, not full array LED  the flagship , which is rather odd considering Samsung's flagship TVs have typically been curved for the past few years.The Q8 Series, meanwhile, was shown-off at the CES 2017 in 55, 65 and 75-inch sizes, all with curved screens and edge-lit local dimming backlights.Both the Q9 and Q8 models will also have an 'invisible connection' cable that links the display to a hub that stores the HDMI slots. A bigger contribution to the 'clutter-free' concept behind the QLED TVs' design are the easel-style Studio Stand and small swivel-base Gravity Stand.Samsung's QLED TVs are claimed to be all about the brightest possible, most accurate coloured images pictures, which therefore work with all kinds of content in all kinds of lighting conditions. Although we can't yet confirm Samsung's claims that its QLED TVs are the brightest and best around  our upcoming reviews will confirm or deny that  they do appear to be as much about design and flexibility of installation as about picture quality.That all seems a decent package for the living room, but whether you should buy a QLED TV will ultimately come down to price. And here comes the crux of the matter; will QLED TVs be cheaper than OLED TVs? They may need to be to stand a chance, but is Samsung really going to make itself a cut-price brand? We seriously doubt it. Expect oodles of marketing that make QLED seem a better option than OLED, though whether it is or not, only time will tell.If you're looking for the best laptop deals, you've come to the right place. That's because, every week, we trawl through all of the biggest and best US laptop retailers to find the best laptop deals on decent models.Whether you're after a cheap laptop for browsing the web and doing other simple tasks  or you need a new laptop for school or work  or if you're after a really powerful laptop for as little money as possible, we have you covered.At the top of the page you'll find our selection of the very latest and best cheap laptop deals of the week followed by a selection of popular quality laptops that retailers like to discount on a regular basis. Underneath those laptop deals you'll find our pick of the latest  One of the hottest laptops from HP is available for its lowest price yet. You can have a 13-inch, Full HD laptop for nearly $100 off the current asking price at  If you think this year's Apple laptop is a little too pricey (but totally still want one), then check it out selling at $200 off for  While its first break into Windows tablets wasn't a stellar one, Huawei's MateBook 2-in-1 looks way more appealing with a whopping $550 slashed from the price, going for The latest entry-level gaming laptop, with Nvidia's new GTX 1050 Ti graphics chip, from Acer is available now for $50 off at  If you're torn between what size gaming laptop to get, then this deal makes that decision a little easier, with both the 15.6-inch GE62VR and 17.3-inch GE72VR from MSI available for hundreds off at There have been some generous offers going of late for this popular Lenovo series. Any choice between the 6GB and 12GB RAM options should run multiple reasonably-demanding standard applications at once. Drive sizes vary from 256GB solid-state to 1TB spinning hard drives. Plus, some options include dedicated Nvidia GeForce GTX 940MX graphics.This is one of the most value-packed 2-in-1 laptops we've seen in a while, an ideal entry point to casual users wanting to try out the world of these higher function tablet/laptop hybrids. Specs include 4GB of RAM, 128GB of solid-state storage, a 10.1-inch HD (1,280 x 800) screen, Windows 10 and a quad-core Intel Atom processor.There's some hefty grunt under the shell of this HP Laptop 15 and there are some great prices available as well. Even with the Intel Pentium processor and 4GB of RAM to start, this laptop will whip through pretty much any day-to-day activity you can throw at it without the juddering performance of even cheaper laptops. Hell, it'll even have a decent crack at playing a few of the less demanding games out there if you equip it with an Intel Core processor., which tells you a lot about its level of quality. Replete with an all-metal frame, this is probably one of the best-looking laptops for under 500 bucks. There are plenty of ports (old and new), 4GB of RAM and up to 512GB in solid-state storage. The cheapest models have a respectable Intel Core i3 processor, but you can get the more powerful i5 versions if you need that extra kick. Another dig at Apple? Unlike the Air, this laptop sports a fully HD screen.We've reviewed loads of laptops over the years: we've seen the good ones, the great ones and the ones to avoid. Sometimes, the  pop up online at some truly deal-tastic prices. In this section, we list the very best laptops out there and the best deals on each one.The Dell XPS 13 is, bar none, the best laptop you can buy today. It features a revolutionary design that's astonishingly thin and light. Fitting a 13.3-inch screen into such a small frame means Dell has created a nearly borderless Infinity display. It's a powerful and long lasting machine even by today's Ultrabook standards. The XPS 13 comes outfitted with Intel's latest Kaby Lake processors plus lighting, quick storage and memory, all while coming in at a very affordable starting price. For these reasons, it easily takes the top slot as the best This is one of the best value Ultrabooks on the market and has been on our shortlist for a few months already. Its price has gone up marginally because of the exchange rate but with a gorgeous finish, a full HD display and a Core M CPU for under 600, it's the one to beat.Arguably, the MacBook Air is no more, but the clones never stop coming. Among them is the Acer Aspire S 13. Its not quite as thin and light as many prominently featured Ultrabooks, nor is it particularly premium. However, the Aspire S 13 packs quite a punch when it comes to performance. USB-C and a full HD display put it just over the edge in beating out the 13-inch Air, and for a much lower cost. Despite the powerful CPU, the Acer Aspire S 13 even manages a battery life of 7 hours and 49 minutes, according to our testing.It is relatively pricey, but this Inspiron absolutely nails it when it comes to value, especially for hardcore gamers. This is among the strongest laptops housing Nvidia's new, low-end GTX 1050 graphics chips. The latest Intel Core series processors, full HD displays and tons of storage options make the Inspiron 15 Gaming a fine solution for PC gamers on a budget.Lenovo has crafted a brilliant, forward-thinking device that could very well create a subcategory in computing all of its own. The modest specs hold it back from taking on the big boys in terms of raw power, but the innovative digital touchpad keyboard and drawing surface look like trendsetters to us. The Android version is currently about $100 cheaper than the Windows one (click "see all prices" above to see all options).Before Asus's latest flipping Chromebook came around, pickings were slim when it came to affordable models with full-on Intel Core processors and 1080p displays, not to mention touchscreens, backlit keyboards and USB-C ports. It may use an Intel Pentium chip on the low-end, but the Asus Chromebook Flip is by no means low-end. Compared to whats offered by the competition, the Asus Chromebook Flips value is unparalleled, and thats without getting into its pristine tablet mode, which blows other hybrids completely out of the water.Can a tablet really replace your laptop or home PC? That's still up for debate, but the best tablet trying to make that happen is the Microsoft Surface Pro 4  and it does a fine job with the full blown version of Windows 10, an integrated kickstand and optional keyboard attachment. Great for for creative professionals, students and everyday folks alike  it's only the premium price that pushes it down the list, but if you're willing to pay for it, you're getting a lot of power  Pricehawk is a Chrome extension that will automatically find you the cheapest deals for the tech and games items you're shopping for online. It'll also let you know if there are voucher codes you can use to save even more money!The Marshall Kilburn is a wildly unique Bluetooth speaker that, despite some obvious flaws, we cant help fall in love with. That said, the retro styling and superb sound will appeal to those looking for a conversation piece.Marshall, most known for its black-and-gold liveried guitar amps, has moved into the headphone and speaker space. To that end, the company has a line of wired and wireless headphones like the While the Bluetooth speaker market is saturated with a plethora of options, Marshall has created a line of speakers that will appeal to the design and fashion conscious, just as much as it will to the audiophile crowd. fashion-focused products may sacrifice performance for looks, were happy to report that the Marshall Kilburn sounds as good as it looks.Youre either going to immediately fall in love with the Kilburns design or scoff and dismiss it as a product of pure nostalgia. If you fall into the later camp, we urge you to turn the knobs, touch the brushed metal finishing and velvet strap to see if you change your mind.The speaker is styled after Marshalls iconic guitar amps and features two tweeters and a single woofer crammed its rather large 242 x 140 x 140mm chassis. Weighing in at 3 kg (6.6 lbs), this isnt a speaker youll want to take with you on a road trip, but what you sacrifice in portability you gain in performance.On the front of the Kilburn youll find the iconic Marshall logo and an woven grille that youll find on the companys guitar amps  a nice throwback for those of us who spent our youth playing instruments in the garage.On top youll find all of the controls and inputs which are finished in brushed metal. The controls youll find here are both gorgeous and a pleasure to use, featuring just the right resistance that evokes vintage audio gear while still having all the modern conveniences like a Bluetooth pairing button.Flip the on switch up and youll be able to select either the aux input or Bluetooth to use. If youre using Bluetooth, press the Pair button and find the Kilburn in your devices Bluetooth menu.But heres where we found a weird quirk: in order to charge the Kilburn, you have to plug the power cord into the wall and turn the speaker on. Youll also need to use the included IEC C7 power cable to charge as there are no USB ports whatsoever. This means the Kilburn wont charge your phone either.If thats what youre looking for, however, Marshalls smaller Stockwell speaker does act as a power bank for your phone and is much more portable.Since the Marshall Kilburn has independent bass and treble controls, its hard to comment on the neutrality of the speaker as users can tailor the sound to their tastes. For our tests, we set the bass and treble to 50% and the Kilburn blew us away with powerful bass, shimmering highs and a good sense of space.If youre tired of portable Bluetooth speakers with anemic bass response, youre going to love the Kilburn. The speaker is capable of a frequency response of 62-20,000Hz. For comparison, the  that we love has a frequency response of 90-20,000Hz. That extra low end extension lets bass heavy songs shine with floor rattling power. You can feel just how much air the Kilburn is moving by placing your hand in front of the rear bass port.Battery life is rated for 20 hours of playback and our testing found that number to be spot on. Should you find that your battery seems to be holding less charge than it once did, one neat feature Marshall built into the Kilburn is the ability to replace its battery  most competing speakers are sealed, so once the battery dies you have to chuck the entire speaker.The Marshall Kilburn might not appear to be the best choice in Bluetooth speakers. Its large, heavy, doesnt have USB charging and isnt waterproof. Plus, $299 (239, about AU$390) is a lot to pay for a Bluetooth speaker.Throughout our week of testing, we fell in love with the Kilburns design, feel and pristine sound quality. Theres no other portable Bluetooth speaker on the market quite like it. Its a head turner and conversation piece. Its a piece of audio art that youll be proud to show off to your friends during a party.In a sea of look-alike speakers that all sound fairly good, the Marshall Kilburn separates itself from the pack with its vintage styling and killer sound. If design and audio performance are your two most important criteria for a Bluetooth speaker  and they should be  the Kilburn is near perfect. hits the shops and you get to see and touch it for yourselves. Our console has arrived just ahead of the launch date so to tide you over weve filmed the very moment we unboxed the console for you to enjoy.Watch below as TechRadars own Jon Porter opens the console for the first time and shows you exactly what you can expect to get in the box.Upon opening the box youll find both Joy-Con controllers side by side and individually wrapped alongside the consoles tablet.Lift away this part of the box and youll find the consoles manual, the (non charging) Joy-Con grip, Joy-Con wrist straps, the main dock, and HDMI cable and a charger.In short, everything you need to get started, aside from a game to play.Not sure what games you'll have to choose from? Not to worry, you can see all the 