the-economist
Wind and solar energy are disrupting a century-old model of providing electricity. What will replace it?FROM his office window, Philipp Schrder points out over the Bavarian countryside and issues a Bond villains laugh: In front of you, you can see the death of the conventional utility, all financed by Mr and Mrs Schmidt. Its a beautiful sight. The wind blowing across Wildpoldsried towards the Alps lazily turns the turbines on the hills above. The south-facing roofs of the houses, barns and cowsheds are blanketed with blue photovoltaic (PV) solar panels. The cows on the green fields produce manure that generates biogas which warms the , the sports hall and many of the houses where the 2,600 villagers live, as well as backing up the wind and solar generators in winter. All told, the village produces five times more electricity than it needs, and the villagers are handsomely rewarded for their greenness; in 2016 they pocketed about 6m ($7m) from subsidies and selling their surplus electricity.It hardly looks like the end of the world; but Mr Schrder, who works at Sonnen, an energy-storage firm, has a point. Many environmentalists want the worlds energy system to look like Wildpoldsrieds. And the things it is based onsubsidies for investment, very little spending on fuel, and moving electricity generation to the edge of, or off, the gridare anathema to electricity markets and business models developed for the fossil-fuel age.Few greens would mourn them. But the fall in utility revenues that comes with the spread of places like Wildpoldsried is not just bad news for fossil-fuel-era incumbents in the generation and transmission businesses. It is also becoming a problem for the renewables themselves, and thus for the efforts to decarbonise the electricity supply that justified their promotion in the first place.In 2014 the International Energy Agency (IEA), a semi-official forecaster, predicted that decarbonising the global electricity grid will require almost $20trn in investment in the 20 years to 2035, at which point the process will still be far from finished. But an electricity industry that does not produce reliable revenues is not one that people will invest in.The fight against climate change has seen huge growth in the new renewables, wind and solar power, over the past decade, both in developed countries and developing ones. In 2015 governments poured $150bn into supporting such investment, with America, China and Germany taking the lead. But Wildpoldsried is still very much the exception, not the rule. In 2015 such sources accounted for only 7% of electricity generated worldwide. Over 80% of the worlds energy still comes from fossil fuels (see chart 1). In terms of reducing climate risks there is a long way to go.The good news is that a decade of subsidy-driven growth has brought with it falling costs. Renewables are still on the pricey side in many places, but they are getting less so; in some places wind, in particular, is reasonably competitive. This suggests that their growth might soon need a lot less subsidy than it has attracted to date. Robust carbon prices would give renewables further advantages, but they have as yet proved hard to provide. The EUs emissions-trading scheme is a perennial disappointment: still, hope springs eternal, as witness a recent attempt to persuade the new American administration of the benefits of a revenue-neutral economy-wide carbon tax devoted to providing $2,000 to every family of four in rebates.But pushing renewables into the electricity market has had effects on more than their price; it has hit investment, too. In rich countries governments have imposed renewables on electricity systems that had no need for new capacity, because demand is in decline. Investment in supply beyond what the market required has produced gluts and pushed down prices. In America this has been somewhat masked by the shale-gas revolution, which has caused a bigger shift in the same direction. In Europe the glut of renewables is more starkly seen for what it is. Wholesale electricity prices have slumped from around 80 a megawatt-hour in 2008 to 30-50 nowadays.The result has been havoc for the old-style utilities. Germanys biggest electricity companies, E.ON and RWE, both split in two last year, separating their renewables and grid businesses from indebted and loss-making conventional generation. EY, a consultancy, calculates that utilities across Europe wrote off 120bn of assets because of low power prices between 2010 and 2015. Investment in non-renewables is very low. Never in recent history has the deployment of capital been more difficult than it is right now within the energy industry, says Matt Rennie, who analyses the global-utilities market at EY.It is not just that efforts to shift to renewable power have added new sources of supply to an already well-served market. In an industry structured around marginal costs, renewables have a disruptive punch above their weight.Electricity markets, especially those that were deregulated in the late 20th century, typically work on a merit order: at any given time they meet demand by taking electricity first from the cheapest supplier, then the next-cheapest, until they have all they need; the price paid to all concerned is set by the most expensive source in use at the time. Because wind and solar do not need to buy any fuel, their marginal costs are low. They thus push more expensive producers off the grid, lowering wholesale prices.If renewables worked constantly that would not, at first blush, look like a problem for anyone except people generating expensive electricity. But renewables are intermittent, which means that in systems where the infrastructure was designed before intermittency became an issuealmost all of them, in practicefossil-fuel, hydroelectric and nuclear plants are needed more or less as much as ever at times when the sun doesnt shine and the winds dont blow. And if such plants are shut out of the market by low-cost renewables, they will not be available when needed.In the long run, and with massive further investments, electricity grids redesigned for systems with a lot of renewable energy could go a long way to solving this problem. Grids with lots of storage capacity built in; grids big enough to reach out to faraway renewables when the nearby ones are in the doldrums; grids smart enough to help customers adapt demand to supply: all have their champions and their role to play.But long-run solutions do not solve short-term constraints. So for now countries with lots of renewables need to keep older fossil-fuel capacity available as a standby and to cover peaks in demand. This often means additional subsidies, known as capacity payments, for plants that would otherwise be uneconomic. Such measures keep the lights on. But they also mean that fossil-fuel production capacity clings onoften in particularly dirty forms, such as German power stations powered by brown coal, or backup diesel generators in Britain.Properly structured capacity payments make it sensible to invest in generators that can be switched on when renewable energy is not available. But what will make it sensible to continue investing in renewables themselves?When they are a small part of the system, renewables are insulated from the effects that their low marginal costs have on prices, because as long as there are some plants burning fossil fuels the wholesale price of electricity will stay reasonably high. So utilities could buy electricity from renewable generators, often on fixed-price contracts, without too much worry.But the more renewable generators there are, the more they drag down prices. At times when renewables can meet all the demand, making fossil-fuel prices irrelevant, wholesale electricity prices collapseor sometimes turn negative, with generators paying the grid to take the stuff away (the power has to go somewhere). The more renewables there are in the system, the more often such collapses occur.Rolando Fuentes of Kapsarc, an energy think-tank based in Saudi Arabia, claims the world is caught in a vicious circle: subsidies foster deployment of renewables; renewables depress power prices, increasing the need for financial support. Theoretically, if renewables were to make up 100% of the market, the wholesale price of electricity would fall to zero, deterring all new investment that was not completely subsidised. He calls this vicious circle the clean-energy paradox: The more successful you are in increasing renewables penetration, the more expensive and less effective the policy becomes.Francis OSullivan, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, says the trend is already visible in parts of America with abundant solar energy. Utilities which are required to have renewables in their portfolios, such as those in California, used to offer companies investing in that capacity generous long-term contracts. But research by Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF), a consultancy, shows that, as such utilities come closer to meeting their mandates, solar-power developers are being offered shorter-term fixed prices with a higher subsequent exposure to variable wholesale prices. That reduces the incentive to invest. Solar cannibalises its own competitiveness away, Mr OSullivan says. It eats its own tail.At the turn of the century, according to the IEA, one third of investment in electricity markets flowed into competitive sectors that were exposed to wholesale prices; the rest went into regulated utilities, transmission grids and the sort of fixed-price contracts where the renewables got their start. By 2014 the share of investment in the competitive sectors was just 10% of the total. It is a fair bet that, the more renewables are exposed to competition by contracts pegged to wholesale prices, the more people will shy away from them as well.Ever-lower capital costs, particularly in solar, could go some way to bucking this trend, making investments cheaper even as they become more risky.But if low-marginal-cost renewables continue to push prices down, there will come a time when private investment will dry up. As Malcolm Keay of the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies puts it, The utility business model is broken, and markets are, too.Renewables do not just lower prices; when used by customers, they also eat into demand. Consider Australia. It has 1.5m households with solar cells on their roofs. There are a number of reasons for this. It is a sunny place; installing PVs was until recently generously subsidised; and electricity bills are high. In part that is to pay for some of the subsidies. In part it is because they pay for the grid, which has been becoming more expensive, not least because it has had to deal with a lot more renewables. The IEA says that in parts of southern Australia, grid upgrades have doubled network costs since 2008-09. Despite cuts to subsidies, Australian PV installations are expected to triple over the next decade.When fewer people rely on the grid, there are also fewer left to share the costs. Phil Blythe of GreenSync, a Melbourne-based company that works with utilities to moderate the fluctuations of renewable energy, warns that his country faces an incipient utility death spiral. The more customers generate their own electricity, the more utilities have to raise prices to the customers that remain, which makes them more likely to leave the grid in turn. It wont happen overnight, he says: but it is death by a thousand cuts.In California there is an icon for the effect that domestic renewables have on the demand for grid electricity, and thus on the revenues of utilities: it is called the duck (see chart 2). Every year more Californian consumers have solar cells. As a result, every year electricity demand during the day falls, and revenue falls accordingly. Similar effects are seen in Germany, where there are now 1.4m PV usersmostly domestic. It is one of the reasonssubsidies are anotherwhy domestic electricity prices have stayed high there while wholesale prices have fallen.These home generators are not just reducing demand for grid electricity; often they are allowed to feed surplus power from their PVs into the grid, competing with other generators. In many American states utilities grumble about the net metering rate they are required to pay such peopleespecially in states like Nevada where they have been required to credit the electricity fed in at the retail price, rather than the wholesale price. And rooftop solar installations continue to grow, with 12 states more than doubling their deployment in 2016, according to BNEF. Businesses and industrial users are also becoming big consumers of renewable energy, which potentially reduces their dependence on the grid, and thus the amount they will pay for its services.The response to these problems is not to abandon renewables. The subsidies have helped costs of wind and solar to fall precipitously around the world. Competition is often fierce. Recent auctions for offshore wind farms in the North Sea and solar developments in Mexico and Abu Dhabi have shown developers slashing prices to win fixed contracts to supply clean electricity for decades to come. The levellised cost of electricity for renewablesthe all-in cost of building and operating a plant over its lifetimeis increasingly competitive with fossil fuels in many places. Especially in sunny and windy developing countries with fast-growing demand, they offer a potentially lucrative, subsidy-free investment opportunity.But it does mean changing the way the world buys, sells, values and regulates electricity to take account of the new means by which it generates it. Thinking of wind and solar as a solution by themselves is not enough. You need flexibility on the other side. It only makes sense if this is a package deal, says Simon Mller of the IEA. Elements of that package are already appearing. Markets that sell commoditised kilowatt-hours need to be transformed into markets where consumers pay for guaranteed services. A lot more storage will be needed, with products like those of Sonnen in Wildpoldsried and the Powerwalls made by Tesla fighting for space in peoples homes. Smart grids bolstered by big data will do more to keep demand in line with supply.In Wildpoldsried Mr Schrder dreams of electricity-users inviting friends round for a glass of wine to show off their new solar kits and batteries. Well soon be at a point where people say, Youre so yesterday. You get your power from the grid. But peer pressure is unlikely to be decisive. Bruce Huber of Alexa Capital, which helps fund renewable-energy investments, says business consumers are probably going to be more influential in driving the adoption of these technologies than households, because they will more quickly see how they might cut their bills by using demand-response and storage. For the last 100 years everyone has made money upstream. Now the added value is coming downstream, he says.Mr Huber likens the upheaval facing utilities to that seen in the telecoms industry a generation ago, when a business model based on charging per second for long-distance calls was replaced by one involving the sale of services such as always-on broadband. This is bad news for the vertically integrated giants that grew up in the age of centralised generating by the gigawatt. Jens Weinmann, of ESMT Berlin, a business school, names dozens of tech-like firms that are nibbling away at bits of utilities traditional business models through innovations in grid optimisation and smart-home management systems. With a colleague, Christoph Burger, he has written of the big beyond in which domestic energy autonomy, the use of the blockchain in energy contracts, and crowdsourcing of PV installations and other technological disruptions doom the traditional utility. Already, big Silicon Valley firms such as Google and Amazon are attempting to digitalise domestic energy, too, with home-hubs and thermostats.But how this nibbling leads to a system that all can rely onand who pays for the parts of it that are public, rather than private, goodsremains obscure. The process will definitely be sensitive to politics, because, although voters give little thought to electricity markets when they are working, they can get angry when prices rise to cover new investmentand they scream blue murder when the lights go out. That suggests progress may be slow and fitful. And it is possible that it could stall, leaving climate risks largely unabated.Getting renewables to todays relatively modest level of penetration was hard and very expensive work. To get to systems where renewables supply 80% or more of customers electricity needs will bring challenges that may be far greater, even though renewables are becoming comparatively cheap. It is quite possible that, as Mr Schrder predicts, Mr and Mrs Schmidt in Wildpoldsried will lay waste the worlds conventional electricity utilities while sharing Riesling and gossip with the neighbours. But that does not mean that they will be able to provide a clean, green alternative for everyone.CHINESE banks are not far removed from the age of the abacus. In the 1980s they used these ancient counting boards for much of their business. In the 1990s many bank employees had to pass a basic abacus test. Today the occasional click-clack, click-clack can still be heard in villages as tellers slide their abacus beads up and down the rack.But these days the abacus is mainly a symbol, more likely to be used in the branding of Chinas online-finance companies than as a calculating tool. At least three internet lenders have paid homage to it in their names: Abacus Loans, Small Abacus and Modern Abacus. The prominence, so recently, of the abacus is testament to how backward Chinese banking was a short time ago. The rise of the online lenders shows how quickly change has come.By just about any measure of size, China is the worlds leader in fintech (short for financial technology, and referring here to internet-based banking and investment). It is far and away the biggest market for digital payments, accounting for nearly half of the global total. It is dominant in online lending, occupying three-quarters of the global market. A ranking of the worlds most innovative fintech firms gave Chinese companies four of the top five slots last year. The largest Chinese fintech company, Ant Financial, has been valued at about $60bn, on a par with UBS, Switzerlands biggest bank.How did fintech get so big in China? The short answer is that it was the right thing at the right time in the right place. Even after Chinese banks tucked away their abacuses, they remained remarkably unsophisticated for a high-speed economy. People accumulated wealth but had few good outlets for investing. Entrepreneurs were full of ideas but struggled to get startup loans. Consumers were spending but needed wads of cash to do so.New technology offered a way to vault over these many contradictions. During the past decade China became the country with more internet users than any othermore than 700m. A potential revolution beckoned but plodding state-owned banks were slow to respond. The terrain was open for battalions of hungry companies. Some entrepreneurs had roots in e-commerce, others in online gaming, many were just first-timers.Today, the promise of fintech in China is great. It is shaking up a stodgy banking system and helping build a more efficient one, especially for consumers and small businesses. But limitations are also clear. Banks are fighting back. And regulators, tolerant so far, are wading in. For years China has looked to developed countries for ideas about how to manage its financial system. When it comes to fintech, the rest of the world will be studying Chinas experience.The rise of fintech in China is most notable in three areas. The first, obvious in daily life, is mobile payments. Chinas middle-class consumers, emerging as the internet took off, have always been inclined to shop online (see chart 1). This made them big, early adopters of digital payments. China also had a late-starter advantage. Developed economies long ago swapped cash for plastic (credit and debit cards). China was, until a decade ago, overwhelmingly cash-based.The shift to digital payments accelerated with the arrival of smartphones, bought by many Chinese who had never owned a personal computer. Today 95% of Chinas internet users go online via mobile devices. Alipay, the payments arm of Alibaba, an e-commerce giant, soon became the mobile wallet of choice. But it quickly faced a challenge, when Tencent, a gaming-to-messaging company, launched a payment function in its wildly popular WeChat phone app, tapping its 500m-strong user base. Baidu, Chinas main search engine, followed with its own wallet.Competition has sparked a stream of innovations, especially in the way mobile apps can connect online to face-to-face retail transactions. QR codes, the matrix-like bar codes that generally failed to catch on in the West, have become ubiquitous in Chinese restaurants and shops. Users simply open WeChat or Alipay, scan a QR code and make a payment. And phones themselves can serve as payment cards: with another click, users display their own bar codes, which shopkeepers then scan. And it is as easy for people to send money to each other as it is to send a text messagea vast improvement over the bricks of cash that used to change hands.Many of the payment functions within WeChat or Alipay exist elsewhere in the world, but in disaggregated form: Stripe or PayPal for online shops processing payments; Apple Pay or Android Pay for those using their phones as wallets; Facebook Messenger or Venmo for friends transferring money. In China all these different functions have been combined onto single platforms. Adoption is widespread. For about 425m Chinese, or 65% of all mobile users, phones act as wallets, the worlds highest penetration rate, according to Chinas ministry of industry and information technology. Mobile payments hit 38trn yuan ($5.5trn) last year, up from next to nothing five years earlierand more than 50 times the size of the American market.A second area where China has become the global leader is online lending. In most countries, banks overlook small borrowers. This problem is especially acute in China. State-owned banks dominate the financial system, with a preference for lending to state-owned companies. The absence of a mature system for assessing consumer credit-risk adds to banks reluctance to lend to individuals. Grey-market lenders such as pawn shops provide financing but at usurious interest rates.Fintech has started to fill this gap. E-commerce was again the launch-pad: online shopping platforms developed loan services, and are using their customers transactions and personal information to create credit scores. (How the government might eventually harvest data for social control is cause for concern, but for now lenders are merely trying to master the basics of credit ratings.) Shoppers on Alibaba and JD.com, Chinas two biggest e-commerce portals, can conveniently borrow small amounts, typically less than 10,000 yuan. According to Ant Financial (Alibabas financial arm, spun out in 2014), 60% of borrowers in this category had never used a credit card. On their platforms, Ant and JD.com also lend to merchants, many of whom are the kinds of small businesses long ignored by banks.However, e-commerce lending is intrinsically cautious. Its targets are clients already well-known to the big shopping platforms. For the more radical side of Chinas online lending, look instead at the explosion of peer-to-peer (P2P) credit. From just 214 P2P lenders in 2011, there were more than 3,000 by 2015 (see chart 2). Initially free from regulatory oversight, P2P soon morphed into Chinas financial Wild West, brimming with frauds and dangerous funding models. More than a third of all P2P firms have already shut down.Yet P2P lenders still have a big role to play in China. Despite a string of headline-grabbing collapses, the industry has continued to grow. Outstanding P2P loans increased 28-fold from 30bn yuan at the start of 2014 to 850bn yuan today. The online lenders answer a basic need, like Chinas grey-market lenders of old, but in modern garb and, thanks to all the competition, offering credit at lower interest rates.In other countries, P2P firms typically lend to clients online and obtain funding from institutional investors. The most successful lenders in China flip that approach on its head. Because of the lack of consumer credit ratings, they vet borrowers in person. Lufax, Chinas biggest P2P firm, operates shopsmore than 500 in 200 citiesfor loan applicants. And for funding, Chinese P2P firms draw almost entirely on retail investors. More than 4m people invest on P2P platforms, up by a third over the past year. The platforms can then divide loans into small chunks, parcelling them out to investors to disperse risks.This points to the third area of Chinas fintech prowess: investment. Until recently, Chinese savers faced two extreme options for managing their money: stash it in bank accounts, where interest rates were artificially low, but it was as safe as the Communist Party; or punt on the stockmarket, about as safe as playing baccarat in a casino in Macau. In the middle there was nothing, says Huang Hao, vice-president of Ant Financial. Fintech has opened that middle ground.In the West asset managers increasingly worry that they face a wave of disintermediation as investors migrate online. In China asset managers barely had a chance to serve as intermediaries in the first place; the market skipped into the digital stage. In large part this resulted from a generational divide that is the inverse of the global norm: the best-paid workers in China tend to be younger, the countrys first big generation of white-collar workers. They are much more likely to be willing to trust web-based platforms to manage their money. In America people love technology, too, when they are 22. They just dont have any money, says Gregory Gibb, Lufaxs chief executive.The biggest breakthrough was the launch of an online fund by Alibaba in 2013. This fund, Yue Bao (or leftover treasure), was promoted as a way for people to earn interest on the cash in their e-commerce accounts. The appeal, though, turned out to be much broader. Invested through a money-market fund, Yue Bao offered returns in line with the interbank market, where interest rates float freely (see chart 3). This meant that savers could get rates that were more than three percentage points higher than those banks offered. And risk was minimal, because their cash was still ultimately in the hands of banks. Yue Bao attracted 185m customers within 18 months, giving it 600bn yuan of assets under management.As is so often the case in China, new entrants soon appeared. In 2014 Tencent launched Licaitong, an online fund platform linked to WeChat. Within a year, it had 100bn yuan under management. Lufax, meanwhile, outgrew its P2P roots to transform itself into a financial supermarket, offering personal loans, asset-backed securities, mutual funds, insurance and more. Robo-advisers (firms that use algorithms and surveys to let users build portfolios) also have China in their sights.And it is not just about wealthy investors. In the West people generally need deep pockets before they can afford to buy into products such as money-market funds. In China all it takes is a smartphone and an initial buy-in of as little as 1 yuan. WeChat, with 800m active accounts, and Ant, with 400m, can afford to be generous.How to gauge the impact of fintech in China? Measured against the rest of the countrys colossal financial system, the various fintech pieces are puny. Apps and online lenders might have massive user bases, but they are mainly comprised of consumers and small businesses, not the hulking state-owned enterprises and government entities that form the backbone of the banking system. The outstanding balance of P2P credit is roughly 0.8% of total bank loans. Credit provided by the e-commerce firms adds up to even less. Earnings from mobile payments amount to barely 2% of bank revenues.Wei Hou, an analyst with Bernstein Research, reckons that the fintech firms will grab less than a twentieth of banks business by 2020. That is hardly to be sneezed at, since it comfortably equates to 1trn yuan in revenues. But it is not the kind of radical disruption that fintechs more ardent evangelists often foretell.Nevertheless, just looking at the overall size of fintech is insufficient. In the market segments they have set their sights on, fintech firms have made a big mark. Digital payments account for nearly two-thirds of non-cash payments in China, far surpassing debit and credit cards. P2P loans make up about a fifth of all consumer credit.Whats more, fintech firms have provoked a competitive response. Take the customer experience at Chinas biggest banks: it has improved markedly over the past few years. Once-cumbersome online-banking portals are much easier to use.Even more important, banks are also changing their business models. Prodded in part by the online investment funds, they have moved away from their plain-vanilla deposit-taking roots. Their focus has shifted to wealth-management products (WMPs), deposit-like investments which they sell to their clients, often via mobile apps. Returns are as high as anything on Alipay or Tencent. The banks apps are not as slick, but not far off, and they feel far safer, with their reassuringly physical thousands of branches. The outstanding value of WMPs has reached more than 26trn yuan, quadrupling in five years. WMPs have brought new risks into the financial system, in particular concerns over banks funding stability. But they have arguably done more to promote interest-rate liberalisation than any regulatory edict.And banks have come to appreciate their own strengths: branch networks; solid reputations; and risk controls. You cant say that banks or fintech firms are better positioned. Both need each other, says Li Hongming, chairman of Huishang Bank, the main lender in Anhui, a big central province. Fintech upstarts have also learned that lesson. Look at Wheat Finance, one of the countrys earliest P2P lenders, established in 2009. Amy Huang, Wheats CEO, says her initial goal was to challenge banks on their home turf. But she soon realised that banks have insuperable advantages, with their stable, low-cost funding bases. Instead of battling them, Wheat is becoming their partner: 70% of its revenues come from selling digital services to banks.Regulatory attitudes are also shifting. Chinas government initially gave fintech companies a free hand, a striking contrast to its heavy policing of traditional banks. The hunch was that fintech firms were small enough for any problems to be manageable, and might produce useful innovations. This wager paid off: the rise of mobile payments and online lending owe much to light regulation.But the era of benign neglect is over. In 2016, provoked in part by the P2P scandals, China introduced regulations to cover most fintech activities. Most of the rules are aimed at making fintech safer, not at curbing it. Firms can no longer pursue their most ambitious strategies. Individuals, for instance, can borrow no more than 200,000 yuan from any one P2P lender.Some of the regulations, though, also constrain what fintech firms can hope to achieve. The central bank is overseeing the creation of an online-payments clearance platform. It wants transparency: all digital payments will be visible to the central bank. But it could neutralise one of the main advantages of Ant and Tencent, forcing them to share transaction data with banks. It seemed, for a time, that Chinas internet titans might go after banks crown jewels, when they obtained licences to run online banks. But the government has required that they act in partnership with existing banks for even the most basic functions such as deposits and withdrawals.Yet this is not the end of the road. Ant and Tencent still have hundreds of millions of users between them on apps that offer a wide range of financial services and products. They just need to persuade enough users to view them not simply as mobile wallets but as mobile brokers and lenders. As Lufax and JD.com hone their offerings, they, too, will grow more powerful. Regulations have placed speed bumps along their path. But the path is still there.Chinas fintech champions are also trying to break into new territory abroad. WeChats mobile wallet is usable internationally, mostly in Asia for now. Ant has invested in mobile-finance companies in India, South Korea and Thailand. But replicating their successes in other markets will not be straightforward. Much of their repertoire was devised specifically to address deficiencies in Chinas financial system. And anything that touches on core banking abroad will require local incorporation and adherence to local regulationsheadwinds against global expansion.Chinas bigger impact is likely to be indirect. Its fintech giants have shown what can be done. For emerging markets, the lesson is that with the right technology, it is possible to leapfrog to new forms of banking. For developed markets, China offers a vision of the grand consolidationapps that combine payments, lending and investmentthat the future should hold.And the biggest lesson of all: it is not upstarts versus incumbents but rather a question of how banks absorb the fintech innovations blossoming around them. China, an early adopter of the abacus, is, after a long period of dormancy, once again blazing a trail in finance.IT IS easy to be cynical about governmentand rarely does such cynicism go unrewarded. Take, for instance, policy towards women. Some politicians declare that they value womens unique role, which can be shorthand for keeping married women at home looking after the kids. Others create whole ministries devoted to policies for women, which can be a device for parking womens issues on the periphery of policy where they cannot do any harm. Still others, who may actually mean what they say, pass laws giving women equal opportunities to men. Yet decreeing an end to discrimination is very different from bringing it about.Amid this tangle of evasion, half-promises and wishful thinking, some policymakers have embraced a technique called gender budgeting. It not only promises to do a lot of good for women, but carries a lesson for advocates of any cause: the way to a governments heart is through its pocket.At its simplest, gender budgeting sets out to quantify how policies affect women and men differently (see ). That seemingly trivial step converts exhortation about treating women fairly into the coin of government: costs and benefits, and investments and returns. You dont have to be a feminist to recognise, as Austria did, that the numbers show how lowering income tax on second earners will encourage women to join the labour force, boosting growth and tax revenues. Or that cuts to programmes designed to reduce domestic violence would be a false economy, because they would cost so much in medical treatment and lost workdays.As well as identifying opportunities and errors, gender budgeting brings womens issues right to the heart of government, the ministry of finance. Governments routinely bat away sensible policies that lack a champion when the money is handed out. But if judgments about what makes sense for women (and the general good) are being formed within the finance ministry itself, then the battle is half-won.Gender budgeting is not new. Feminist economists have argued for it since the 1980s. A few countries, such as Australia and South Africa, took it up, though efforts waxed and waned with shifts in political leadershipit is seen as left-wing and anti-austerity. The Nordic countries were pioneers in the West; Sweden, with its self-declared feminist government, may be the gold standard. Now, egged on by the World Bank, the UN and the IMF, more governments are taking an interest. They should sign on as the results are worth having.Partly because South Korea invested little in social care, women had to choose between having children, which lowers labour-force participation, or remaining childless, which reduces the countrys fertility rate. Gender budgeting showed how, with an ageing population, the country gained from spending on care. Rwanda found that investment in clean water not only curbed disease but also freed up girls, who used to fetch the stuff, to go to school. Ample research confirms that leaving half a countrys people behind is bad for growth. Violence against women; failing to educate girls properly; unequal pay and access to jobs: all take an economic toll.Inevitably there are difficulties. Dividing a policys costs and benefits between men and women can be hard. Sometimes, as with lost hours of school, the costs have to be estimated. Redesigning the budgeting process upends decades of practice. If every group pressing for change took the same approach, it would become unmanageable. In a way, though, that is the point. Governments find it easy to pay lip-service to womens rights. Doing something demands tough choices.PEACOCKS strut; bowerbirds build lovenests; spiders gift-wrap flies in silk. Such courtship rituals play an important role in what Charles Darwin called sexual selection: when the female of a species bears most of the costs of reproduction, males use extravagant displays and gifts to demonstrate their reproductive fitness and females choose between them. For human males, shards of a crystalline form of carbon often feature. A diamond engagement ring signals a mans taste, wealth and commitment, all to persuade a woman that he is a good bet.This particular courtship gift was dreamed up by an ad agency for De Beers, the cartel that sold almost all of the worlds diamonds throughout the 20th century. In the 1930s it started to promote a link between diamonds and marriage. Diamonds unmatched hardness would symbolise loves endurance and their fire, or brilliance, its passion. Two months salary, the firm suggested, was what the ring should costa good investment since, as the admen said, A diamond is forever.). Though a growing Chinese middle class will probably prop up demand for a while, millennials in Western countries seem keener on memorable experiences than on bling. Diamonds image has been blemished by some being mined in warzones and sold to pay for the fighting. Meanwhile, laboratory-grown synthetic diamonds, long fit only for industrial use, are becoming good enough to compete with gems from out of the ground.But the long-term threat to diamonds lustre is more surprising: that their price could plummet. In recent years regulators (and market forces) have undermined De Beerss cartel by limiting the share of other producers stones that it can buy. Now responsible for just a third of global sales, the company can no longer manage supply by stockpiling gems when demand turns down. It is spending less on advertising, since it no longer gets the lions share of the benefits. But the very value of diamonds lies in being scarce and covetedthat is, costly. In the jargon, they are Veblen goods, named after a 19th-century economist: prestige-enhancing trinkets for which a higher price encourages buyers. With most products, lower prices increase demand; with diamonds, they could kill it.Greater equality for women might seem to render male-courtship displays redundant. But mating preferences evolved over millennia and will not change quickly. If diamonds were to cease being a way to signal a mans marriageability, what might take their place?A different gift, perhaps. In China skewed sex ratios mean that a prospective bridegroom must own an apartment and shower his future in-laws with cash. But a glittering stone goes to the woman, not her family. And it is more than a gift: it is a status symbol, demonstrating that even as a man approaches the expenses of married life, he can still splash out on a bauble. Or a man could rely on more generic forms of display, such as a fancy degree, good job or sharp suit. But these can impress one woman as easily as another, or several simultaneously. He must show commitmenta need not unique to courtship. Salvadoran gangsters get extravagant tattoos; Japanese  cut off a fingertip. These visible signs of allegiance make it hard to defect, and impose heavy costs. But as marriage proposals they would fall short. Few women would feel proud to carry around their fiancs severed pinkie.Many millennial women seek a mate who is creative, charitable and earns enough not to live with his parents. The millionaire founder of a startup that makes an app to teach yoga to orphans would be ideal. As a token of his commitment, a suitor might offer the object of his affections 51% of his sharesso much nicer than a joint bank account. Less eligible men could offer instead to link Uber accounts, thus entwining the couples reputations: their joint five-star rating would be at risk if either misbehaved. Uber-linking would also allow each to keep track of the others whereabouts, discouraging infidelity. Whatever ultimately replaces diamonds, it will surely be digital, not worn on a digit.CONSERVATISM can and does mean different things to those who call themselves conservatives, said Ronald Reagan soothingly, in an address to the Conservative Political Action Conference in 1977. He referred to social conservatism and economic conservatism, tendrils that then seemed disparate, but which he, speaking shortly after Jimmy Carters inauguration, would soon unite. What I envision is not simply a melding together of the two branches of American conservatism into a temporary uneasy alliance, he said. But the creation of a new, lasting majority.It was tempting to wonder whether the speech Donald Trump delivered on February 24th to CPAC, an annual gathering for conservatives held on a Maryland bank of the Potomac river, signalled the end of that Reaganite consensus.Mr Trump, who had been explicitly compared to Reagan by his loyal deputy, Mike Pence, the previous day, did sound a few familiar notes. Its time for all Americans to get off welfare and get back to work, he said, adding, Youre going to love it, youre going to love it, youre going to love it. Also like Reagan, he extolled the need for strong armed forces: Nobodys going to mess with us folks. Nobody. It will be one of the greatest military build-ups in American history.Otherwise, Mr Trump veered so wildly from Reaganite principles it was interesting to wonder what his audience of conservative lobbyists, commentators and activists thought they were cheering for. Reagan, in what would be remembered as a great and prescient speech, lauded the free market, the best mechanism ever devised by the mind of man to meet material needs. In Mr Trumps nationalist vision, markets cannot be trusted with American interests. If they want a pipeline in the United States, theyre going to use pipe thats made in the United States, he said, referring to a protectionist clause he has inserted into a decree to unlock a proposed oil and gas pipeline. Our country is being absolutely devastated by trade dealsSo actually I like Bernie, he said, claiming kinship with a fellow protectionist, Bernie Sanders, the only self-declared socialist in the Senate.A greater contrast was between the moral vision that informed Reagans love of liberty with Mr Trumps moral vacuity. When a conservative says that totalitarian communism is an absolute enemy of human freedom he is not theorisinghe is reporting the ugly reality captured so unforgettably in the writings of Alexander Solzhenitsyn, said Reagan. For Mr Trump, the only ugly reality is the possibility of not being number one. The core conviction of our movement is that we are a nation that will put its own citizens first, he thundered.Convinced of the moral force of his concerns for national security and, if they could only be roused, of the instincts of ordinary Americans, Reagan issued a stern warning against apathy: Let us reverse the trend of public indifference to problems of national security. Mr Trump, an opportunist, not an awakener, by contrast aimed to whip up the rights already wildly exaggerated fear of terrorism. I have a friend, hes a very substantial guy, he loves the city of lightshe loves Paris, said the president, who also said journalists should never use unnamed sources. Now he doesnt even think in terms of going there.In tone and substance, then, Mr Trumps speech was an affront to much of what his partys most successful modern leader stood for. And yet the cheers loyally came. Lock her up! the CPAC attendees jeered, reprising one of Mr Trumps campaign chants, after he referred to his defeated rival, Hillary Clinton. Build a wall! they hollered, though, only minutes before, the same conservative crowd had applauded a panel discussion on the evils of eminent domain, which Mr Trump has used liberally in his building career, and would have to rely on heavily to build his promised border barricade.The erosion of traditional conservative principles pre-dates Mr Trumps emergence, of courseas Reagans speech also illustrates. It was an argument for small and local government; but not to the exclusion of the strong national institutions a well-governed country needs. Those concerns of a national charactersuch as air and water pollution that do not respect state boundariesmust, of course, be handled on the national level, Reagan said. He also decried the trend of deteriorating faith in and continuing abuse of our national intelligence agencies. Compare that to Mr Trumps forthcoming attack on the Environmental Protection Agency and repeated assault on the nations spies. Both are consistent with the destructive anti-government arguments popular on the right, which were parroted by most of Mr Trumps fellow CPAC speakers.Reagan also stressed the importance of dialogue with political opponents. If we truly believe in our principles, we should sit down and talk, he said. Conservatism is not a narrow ideology, nor is it the exclusive property of conservative activists. Compare that to the foam-flecked denunciations of liberals, journalists and anyone in favour of gun controls that almost all the CPAC speakers dusted off to whip up applause. If conservatism has succumbed to Trumpism, partisanship was the enabler: against a mortal enemy, who cares about ideological purity?Even so, it is unclear how complete the CPAC worlds embrace of Trumpism really is. The conference gave great prominence to the presidents populist guru, Stephen Bannon, and to the right-wing nationalist media outlet, Breitbart News, he formerly ran. Neither of them used to be welcome at CPAC; in 2013 and 2014, Mr Bannon organised a parallel event, called The Uninvited, to which he invited speakers who shared his suspicion of Muslims and antipathy to immigration. This time around, Breitbart had a prominent pitch outside the main auditorium, and Mr Bannon was one of CPACs most talked-about speakers.The Republican congressmen who tend to be staple fare on the CPAC stage mainly stayed away, however; only one United States senator, Ted Cruz, spoke at the conference. Republican leaders are largely acquiescent to Mr Trumps conservative heresies. Not many have embraced them. Yet if he remains his partys champion and election-winner, the presidents reception at CPAC suggests, they surely will.THE function of the Academy Awards has always been self-promotion. They were created in 1929 to defend the industry against bad press, with sex scandals and on-screen violence causing a stir among the eras crusading moralists. Hollywood players created an awards show to improve their image; if there could be a best picture, they implicitly argued, some of the films must be good.These days, it is not so simple. What constitutes best is a matter of heated debate. This year, is it the nostalgia-driven escape of La La Land? Or will the politics of representation win out and elevate Hidden Figures or Moonlight? Over the past few years, popular culture has become the site of Americas most divisive political discussions, and the Oscars have gone through some growing pains as they try to reflect the changing landscape. What film it chooses to honour on February 26th will tell us how far it has come.In recent years, the Academy has frequently ignored films with political and social relevance (like Selma and Carol) in favour of those like The Artist, Argo or Birdman that speak specifically to the film industry. La La Land, the favourite to win this year, offers the same insular pleasures. It is a joyful, toe-tapping musical that has offered , but its also a love letter to Hollywood, evoking the style and themes of classic Tinseltown musicals. In any year, it would be a shoo-in for Best Picture.But La La Land has faced a significant backlash that could cost it the top prize. Critics have noted that a by-product of the films pervasive nostalgia is a set of regressive political values on race. If youre gonna make a film about an artist staying true to the roots of jazz against the odds, , youd think that the artist would be black. Instead, the only prominent black character in the film is its de facto villain (played by John Legend), a sell-out who rejects Sebastians preferred traditional style of jazz for something more commercial. noted that the script gives Ryan Goslings character more agency in the romance. It is his melody that recurs through the film to denote particularly important moments in their relationshiphe comes to ask her out at work; he introduces her to jazz; he takes her to see Rebel Without a Cause for research (despite the fact that she is the actor and supposed cinephile). La La Lands status as a front-runner has put a bullseye on its back., it has become a focal point of debates about representation in recent years. Recognising its flawsChris Rock delivered a blistering monologue at last years ceremonythe Academy has made a concerted effort to reform and induct more women, people of colour and members of the LGBT community into their membership. But if La La Land sweeps the awards, it will indicate that the Academy has not fully received the message. Efforts to promote diversity in the Academy and in the movie industry overall are likely to intensify, and the culture wars will get even more contentious.If Hidden Figures or Moonlight takes the top prize, however, it will signify the Academys openness to change. Both films tell marginalised stories that would have previously had trouble getting made in Hollywood, let alone winning its top award. Hidden Figures is the true tale of three black women who worked at NASA and were partly responsible, although never credited, for getting the first American astronaut into orbit. Moonlight follows a gay, black man in a community that violently rejects his sexuality. In years past, its creative vision might have been too bold for the Academy; Barry Jenkins, its writer and director, has three actors play the protagonist at different stages of his life. If it wins Best Picture, it will be one of the rare times that the Academy has got it right: there is no braver or more daring film among the nominees.With the makeup of the Academy in a state of transition and the political character of America itself so deeply divided, the Oscars seem torn. In these troubling times, will they seek solace in the past with the self-congratulatory La La Land, or will they choose to amplify the voices of the sidelined with a view to a more inclusive future? The Best Picture Oscar is always the most hotly anticipated award of the night; this year there is more riding on it than a gold statuette.WITH the parliamentary opposition in Israel hopelessly splintered, demoralised and without an agreed leader, it has fallen mainly to Israels fiercely independent Supreme Court and its combative media to hold the government of Binyamin Netanyahu to account. No wonder both institutions have been in its crosshairs for years. With four justices reaching the mandatory retirement age of 70 this year, it has had a rare opportunity to influence the courts make-up.On February 22nd the justice minister, Ayelet Shaked (pictured), took full advantage of this opportunity. A former aide of Mr Netanyahu and now one of the leaders of the right-wing Jewish Home party, she has been spearheading the campaign for a more conservative Supreme Court. The Judicial Appointments Committee, which she chairs, approved the four new Supreme Court justices. Two of them are religious Orthodox Jews (one of whom lives in a West Bank settlement); another has close ties with right-wing politicians; and the fourth, a Christian who fills the courts Arab seat, is known for usually siding with the state prosecution.The appointments came after months of deadlock between Ms Shaked and the current president of the court, Miriam Naor, who sought to preserve the courts independence. An alliance between the politicians and the representatives of the Bar Association on the committee forced the justices to back down and agree on compromise candidates. None of the four, who are all serving district court judges, is seen as a liberal; two of them have a conservative record and the other two are more centrist. The political right was elated at the appointments, echoing Ms Shaked, who announced that we have changed the course of the legal ship.The Supreme Court has been described by its critics as the Rehavia Junta, for the name of the neighbourhood in Jerusalem where many of them once resided; elitist and liberal-minded secular left-wingers, aloof and detached from wider Israeli society. While this has long been a grossly inaccurate characterisation of the court, the label has stuck.The 15 Supreme Court justices serve both as the Israeli legal systems final court of appeal, and as the High Court for Justice for petitioners against the government on administrative issues and against laws passed by the Knesset. It is in this second role that the court has angered the elected politicians, mostly those from the right but occasionally left-wingers as well. The late Yitzhak Rabin notoriously remarked in 1994 that the Palestinian Authority was better placed than the Israeli government to confront Hamas militants because they could do so unshackledwithout the High Court and without Israeli human rights organisations watching what they did.During the past two decades, particularly since the presidency of Aharon Barak, the court has adopted a more interventionist approach, forcing the government to change policy and on a number of occasions ruling that laws passed by the Knesset were unconstitutional. On February 1st the government was forced to send police to clash with hundreds of settlers, on orders from the court, to dismantle the West Bank settlement of Amona, which was built illegally on privately owned Palestinian land. The court is widely expected to rule next month against a controversial regulation law passed by the Knesset that would retroactively expropriate Palestinian land in similar circumstances.Although some on the left have described the new appointments as a conservative revolution, that is premature. Even with the new justices, the conservatives remain in a minority on the bench and will not hold the presidency, which is determined by seniority, for at least another seven years. Since few cases are held before the entire bench, the president has considerable influence in determining which justices will hear a specific case. The Supreme Court will remain the most effective opposition to Israels government for a while yet. But eventually that could change.HOW abnormal are Swedes, and other people in the Nordic region, in paying tax? A general stereotype for Europe holds some truth: unlike tax-shy southern Europeans, those in the far north pay up readily to get comprehensive, efficient government servicesplus societies with unusually equitable income distribution. In Sweden, even after years of slashing high taxes (an inheritance tax went in 2005, another for wealth disappeared in 2007, some taxes on residential property went the next year, corporate tax is low at 22%), the share of GDP claimed by the state remains high. The OECD reckons its government spent over 51% of GDP in 2014. Income tax rates, at least for the well-off, can be as high as 57%. And the Swedes comply. Sociologists, economists and others have long debated this readiness to cough up for the common good. Lutheran beliefs about the importance of supporting the whole community might be a factor. A strong sense of cultural homogeneity for the folk matters (now some worry this will be undermined by too much immigration). Maybe the generations spent huddling together to survive long, dark winters has played a role.This week brought a new puzzle, however, with evidence that some Swedes are deliberately overpaying their taxes. Official figures published on February 22nd showed tax revenues poured in far faster than forecast last year. Swedens government got a budget surplus of 85bn kronor ($9.5bn) in 2016. Nearly half of that, 40bn Skr, was from overpayment by firms and individuals. This appears to be deliberate. It also causes a headache for civil servants who will have to make repayments and manage the funds. What is going on?This is not evidence, in fact, of a new or extreme culture of Nordic eagerness for paying tax. Instead the explanation is financial, a bizarre result of the existence of negative interest rates. For the past two years, since March 2015, Swedens central bank has kept rates below 0%, as have other Swedish banks, in a broad effort to have the economy avoid deflation. At the same time, the government promised to pay a positive interest rate0.56%for any funds that had been overpaid in tax, upon their return to the taxpayer. Even though this interest payment has since been cut to zero, individuals and companies remain better off storing their savings in the form of overpaid tax, rather watch them shrink in the bank. According to the  a similar situation, again thanks to an unusually large government surplus, is emerging in Switzerland, which also imposed negative interest rates in 2015.Officials and politicians would usually crow about a growing budget surplus. But Swedens official bean-counters are not cheering. The cost of borrowing from taxpayers, ie taking in their over-payments, is higher than raising funds in other ways. It is also not entirely clear how the practice might grow, nor how quickly those who have overpaid will demand their money back, which all makes it tricky to manage the flow of money. Negative interest rates are likely to continue in Sweden for some time, which suggests that overpayment of taxes will also go on. That sounds like the sort of problem a government in southern Europe would be delighted to have. In Sweden, however, officials may ask taxpayers to cool it and please pay a bit less.Frances far-right National Front (FN) movement has never seemed closer to power. In first-round polling, Marine Le Pen, the partys leader, is now comfortably ahead of her likeliest rivals, Emmanuel Macron and Franois Fillon. Mr Fillon is embroiled in scandal over payments to his wife and children for what critics call fictitious work. And Mr Macrons description of French colonial stewardship over Algeria as a crime against humanity while visiting the North African country did not do him wonders at the polls. Still, those hoping for a Madame Prsidente come May should not uncork the champagne just yet. has compiled current and historic French presidential polls, and used them to build a statistical prediction model. We find that if the first round were held today, Ms Le Pen would receive 26.1% of the vote. The runners-up, jostling for a place in the runoff, would be Mr Macron at 20% and Mr Fillon at 19.5%.There is uncertainty in every projection, and Ms Le Pens current lead is no guarantee that she will finish first. But this uncertainty can itself be measured, taking into account the historic polling error in France, the pattern of vote-trading between each pair of candidates and published hypothetical runoff polls. Based on this data, we ran 10,000 computer simulations of the election and counted how often each candidate won.The results are quite favourable to the FNfor the first round. Ms Le Pen wins a place in the runoff in 93% of our simulations, usually facing off against Mr Macron or Mr Fillonthough Benot Hamon, the unexpectedly exciting Socialist candidate, occasionally manages to sneak in.However, far more difficult terrain awaits the would-be populist president in the second round. Voters of every political allegiance are telling pollsters they would band together to stymie her bid, much as they did when Ms Le Pens father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, reached the 2002 run-off. Surveys of head-to-head voting intentions against her likeliest opponents suggest she would need to surmount daunting deficits15 percentage points if she faces Mr Fillon, and a thumping 21 points versus Mr Macron. If run-off polling remains as reliable as it has been in previous French elections, Ms Le Pens implied chances of becoming president rest under 5%.After betting markets were surprised by the Brexit vote and the unexpected victory of Donald Trump, punters are playing Ms Le Pens odds cautiously, putting them anywhere between 28-43% (the wide gap in price between different markets represents manna for arbitrageurs). They may be trying to price in unknown unknowns not reflected in the pollsthe chance of another terrorist attack, a second bout of scandal for Mr Fillon or even the timely release of hacked information.People often think brief streaks of improbable events are likely to continue into the future, and gamblers can be particularly prone to this instinct. Following the unexpected successes of anti-globalisation forces in 2016, a victory for Ms Le Pen might seem inevitable. However, polls for both of those votes showed a far tighter race than surveys of this years French run-off do. The FNs history is replete with hopes dashed at the last minute, as shown both by the defeat of Ms Le Pens father and by the partys disappointing performance in regional elections in 2015. Disappointingly for the FN, history may repeat itself yet again.THE Corvette was designed here, says Jacques Panis, the president of Shinola, a maker of trendy watches, bikes and turntables, at the start of a tour of the company's workshop and offices. Five years ago Shinola set up shop on two floors in Detroit's iconic Argonaut building, which used to be the design headquarters of General Motors, one of the citys big three carmakers. Back then Shinola had 10 employees; today it employs more than 600, of which around 350 are in Detroit.Shinolas success is one of the stories regularly wheeled out in discussions about Detroits recovery. The company now has 20 shops in America, one in London and one in Toronto. It is planning to open a hotel in Detroit next autumn. Bill Clinton toured Shinolas workshop in 2014 and the former president frequently sports its popular Runwell watch. But Shinola tells only one tale of the city. The other story remains fairly bleak.Signs of the Shinola tale are visible everywhere in downtown and midtown Detroit. Whole Foods Market, an upmarket grocer, set up a shop in midtown in 2013. Shake Shack, a trendy hamburger chain, will open a restaurant downtown later this month. Young tech entrepreneurs trade names of new restaurants on Cass corridor, an area around Cass Avenue in midtown. A light-rail line will soon connect midtown and downtown. After a poorly functioning streetlight-system made the centre of the city unsafe and inhospitable for years, streetlights are again shining brightly: in the last couple of years the has city installed 65,000 new, energy-efficient LED lights. Residential living downtown has become so popular that apartment hunters now frequently join waiting lists.Mike Duggan, Detroits mayor, who recently announced his bid for re-election, can claim much credit for the streetlight project, which was finished on time and under budget, a rarity for an undertaking in infrastructure in the city. Under his stewardship the rate of payment of property taxes has increased from just 68% during the citys bankruptcy to 82%, in part thanks to a fairer assessment of the tax burden. Motor City Match, a grant-programme financed by foundations and the federal government, has so far awarded nearly $3m in grants to 60 local businesses, three-quarters of which are owned by blacks and other minorities. Some 10,800 blighted houses have been torn down and another 2,500 will be removed soon. (The progress with blight removal is however overshadowed by its escalating cost and the findings of a state review that the programme was wrongly reimbursed $7.3m from federal funds.)Yet all of these achievements are almost exclusively confined to midtown and downtown, an area of 7.2 square miles in a city almost 20 times that size. Away from the centre, Detroit still has a lot of problems. The patchy public-transport system is a joke. Entire neighbourhoods consist mainly of derelict houses. The crime rate is high and the state of public schools is appalling. Because of all this, people continue to leave a city that has shrunk from 1.8m inhabitants in 1950 to some 680,000 today, albeit at a slower pace than in recent years. last year entitled Why I hate Detroit , Eric Thomas, a native Detroiter who is a brand strategist at Saga MKTG, a marketing firm in the city, points out that 40% of his citys residents live under the poverty line; the median household income is $25,000; almost three-quarters of households are single-parent homes; the unemployment rate is 10%, which is about twice the national average. Five years ago, nobody batted an eyelash when I said I hate Detroit, writes Mr Thomas. Now Shinolas made it chic to wear the idea of it on your wrist. Complaining about Detroit has become almost as taboo.And yet, five years ago Detroit didnt have any bright spots. The city had just shocked America by declaring the countrys biggest municipal bankruptcy ever. True, the recovery is mostly confined to 5% of what was once a great city. But Detroits revival is, very slowly, spreading to other parts of the city that are adjacent to the midtown and downtown areas. One day, in the not too distant future, the tale of two cities might become one narrative again.