the-telegraph
In his first major interview since taking the role, Max Hill said Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) was planning indiscriminate attacks on innocent civilians on a scale similar to those perpetrated by the IRA 40 years ago. that Islamists were targeting UK cities and said there was an enormous ongoing risk which none of us can ignore.he warning comes just days after Mr Hill, one of Britains leading terrorism prosecutors, was unveiled as the new independent reviewer of terrorism legislation.It follows a 30-year legal career during which he helped convict the 21/7 bomb plotters, break up terror cells and imprison Damilola Taylors killers.Mr Hill was unveiled on Monday as the new watchdog, taking over from David Anderson in a role that dates to the height of the IRA threat.He was praised by Amber Rudd, the Home Secretary, for his wealth ofexperience and legal expertise when the appointment was announced.In the role, Mr Hill will report annually to Parliament on the state of British terror legislation as well as undertaking his own reviews.peaking exclusively to this newspaper, Mr Hill made plain his fears that the scale of threat facing Britain today has not been seen since the Seventies., organisation and strategy of different terrorist groups and therefore it would be wrong to draw a simple comparison between Irish republicanism and the ideology of so-called Islamic State, Mr Hill said.But in terms of the threat thats represented, I think the intensity and the potential frequency of serious plot planning  with a view to indiscriminate attacks on innocent civilians of whatever race or colour in metropolitan areas  represents an enormous on-going risk that none of us can ignore.So I think that there is undoubtedly significant ongoing risk which is at least as great as the threat to London in the Seventies when the IRA were activeon the mainland. At the time Britain was facing a concerted terrorist campaign from Irish republicans that saw pubs, train stations and Parliament repeatedly targeted in bomb attacks.r Hill said the success of the intelligence services after the 7/7 bombings in 2005 was largely to thank for suchattacks not becoming more frequent. e also raised concern about the hundreds of British extremists who fled to fight in Syria and Iraq with Isil but are set to return after a string of military defeats.Its an enormous concern that large numbers  we know this means at least hundreds of British citizens who have left this country in order to fight  are now returning or may be about to return, Mr Hill said.Of course the imminent fall of Mosul and perhaps the prospective retaking of Raqqa are both bound to lead to a higher instance of returning fighters. Does that mean that the British public need to be immediately alarmed at a spike in terrorist activity within this country?The answer to that is, I dont know, but it doesnt follow as a matter of fact that those who chose to go to live or fight abroad will bring that fight back to this country.In order to bring you award-winning content and investigative journalism from your favourite writers, we rely on revenue generated by advertising.heresa May is facing a double defeat over the Brexit Bill as peers from across parties back extra protections for EU citizens and a veto on the final deal.Labour, Liberal Democrats, cross-benchers and Tory rebels have all rallied around two amendments that would force changes on the legislation to start Brexit talks.One change would ensure every EU citizen currently in Britain keeps the right to work and stay here, even if Britons living on the Continent lose protections.The second would force ministers to get the approval of MPs and peers on the final Brexit deal before they withdraw from the EU  an effective veto.Tory rebels have also publicly expressed support for the moves, with Baroness Altmann, the former pensions minister, telling The Telegraph...In order to bring you award-winning content and investigative journalism from your favourite writers, we rely on revenue generated by advertising.Yes, five stars. This was a nigh-on perfect finale to a very flawed series  it resolved none of the longstanding issues over misogyny, And the absurdity of much of what happened was more than countered by the excitement it generated: what this did have was meaty acting, breathless tension, gripping action and some very satisfying storytelling. Frankly, after almost 8 hours, it was the least we deserved.The Taboo finale began with unexpected restraint: the showdown between Delaney and Stuart Strange was relatively cordial, as Strange refused to incriminate himself but, equally tellingly, refused to deny the many charges Delaney laid at his feet.elaney  one of Stranges boys who had the shadow of death on them, then secured a ship for his silence, but not before further ominous references to past misdeeds:I witnessed and partipicated in darkness that you cannot conceive. Even Strange seemed a bit put out that Delaney wasnt prepared to have a pop at him.Delaney then poisoned himself, presumably to buy a little timeand safe in the knowledge that his captors still needed him alive. His life duly saved, Delaney than informed Coop, just about at his wits end, that treason charges would be dropped, witnesses would vanish and testimonies would burn, because the ravens told me.He probably genuinely thinks they did, the mad old coot. And then, just like that, James Delaney walked free. Quite why the Crown couldnt have figured out a way to hold him longer, even on trumped up charges, eludes me.vents in Taboo generally have to be taken with a few barrels of salt but if you werent suspending your disbelief by this point then you really shouldnt have still been watching. Accordingly, at this point, I finally threw my hands up in the air and surrendered to the lunacy of the enterprise. And thank goodness I did, because what followed was an absolute riot.Or it was, once Zilpha had done the decent thing and killed herself (perhaps this was by the request of Oona Chaplin  frankly, you couldnt blame her).In the meantime, young Robert continued to do his fathers bidding (maybe it was easy access to those diamonds that kept him loyal), informing all the key players of Delaneys grand plan. Helga and co were kidnapped by the Company, Lorna met with spymistress Carlsbad to allow her to cast her eye over the gunpowder and mentions Delaneys intention to sort out the leaky ship.y which, it transpired, she meant Dumbarton, outed as a Company spy and the only man with steadier nerves than Delaney. His who blinks first approach eventually got him disembowelled, when he informed Delaney that a letter of safe passage would only be forthcoming in exchange for the Company obtaining rights to Nootka. Michael Kelly, so good as Stamper in House of Cards, has been one of the unsung heroes of Taboo, an appealingly shifty enigma whose loyalties you could never be sure of until his final moments.With Brace safely banished to the Delaney homestead, where he provided George Chichester with all the legal ammunition he needed, the league of the damned took its final stand at the docks.Heavily outnumbered and outgunned against the kings men, carnage was inevitable: Helga died, other nameless subordinates fell, Lorna was shot and Cholmondeley blown up (although both may live to fight another day). The royal regiments were decimated. And through it all strode Delaney, impervious to fear, pain, humility and, frankly, the vast majority of recognisable human emotions and feelings. It was thrillingly mounted and utterly involving.he survivors made it to the ship, just. For a time, it looked like all the major figures would remain in play with just their lieutenants sacrificed. Then Strange went up in smoke at the end  Winters revenge, perhaps? Jonathan Pryce and his angry stick will be missed.Fingers crossed Cholmondeley survives his potential fatal injuries  as long as his mouth and manhood are in working order, I think we can assume hell continue uncowed. First stop, however, will be the Azores and a man called Colonnade, to whom they're sailing under American colours. Might they then set up camp in a (perhaps even the?) new world? As dankly evocative as this Regency London was, I shant be sorry to see a little sunlight pierce these stories.If the creators are courageous, theyll cut the second series down to six episodes and give Jessie Buckley her head, allowing Lorna to truly establish herself as Delaneys equal. At the very least, after a triumphant home stretch, the prospect of another go-round is a truly enticing one  and I wouldnt have said that a few weeks ago.In order to bring you award-winning content and investigative journalism from your favourite writers, we rely on revenue generated by advertising.hat first-half aberration at Murrayfield aside, Ireland are putting together an increasingly tidy championship. One might go so far as to say they are now favourites for the title.If Joe Schmidts team can navigate their way past Wales in Cardiff a week on Friday  no given, of course, especially with Rob Howleys team sure to be smarting from their defeat by Scotland  their odds will certainly shorten dramatically.The reason is simple. Even if England win with bonus points against Italy and Scotland, they would still only be a maximum of four points ahead of Ireland heading into that mouthwatering final game in Dublin on March 18. Destiny is in Irelands hands.Not that Schmidt was admitting to it. I probably havent done the maths that far ahead, the Kiwi said when asked how he now saw the title race. Weve tried to focus on the immediate challenge ahead of us.That is their prerogative. Irelands fans are certainly dreaming of that grandstand finish against England, however. The manner in which their team came back on Saturdayto subdue a dangerous France side who had made an electric start at the Aviva Stadium  eventually prevailing with their biggest winning margin over France in the Six Nations since 1975  had them in raptures.s did the return of one Jonathan Sexton. The big talking point before the game had revolved around Schmidts decision to bring the Leinster fly half straight back into his team after five weeks out with a calf injury. In previous years such a decision would not have merited a second thought; Sexton being having proved himself one of the finest No 10s in the world, a department in which Ireland hardly boast the greatest of depth.Such has been Paddy Jacksons development, however, and the litany of injuries suffered by Sexton in recent seasons, that there were some wondering whether this tournament might herald a changing of the guard. At 31, Sexton still has a few years left in him, but can his body still withstand the rigours of Test match rugby? On this evidence, Ireland will hope so.Sexton got off to a mixed start. One early carry and a decent Garryowen were the high points. But he also sent one kick straight into touch under no pressure at all, looking heavenwards in exasperation. While he was finding his feet, Ireland, as a whole, were looking sloppy, regularly getting turned over in the opening 20 minutes.his France team offer so much more dynamism and verve than recent vintages. The likes of Gal Fickou  who exchanged passes with No8 Louis Picamoles out on the left wing in the early stages  and scrum-half Baptiste Serin are a joy to watch. Serin sold Jamie Heaslip an outrageous dummy and wriggled clear before stepping Rob Kearney to win France an early penalty in front of the posts.France then thought they had scored, Fickou flicking a loose ball up into the path of his centre partner Rmi Lamerat who went over on an arcing run. Replays showed Fickou had fractionally knocked on in the process, but France went 6-0 up anyway with Nigel Owens going back to an earlier penalty.reland did not so much as put a foot inside the French 22m in the opening quarter. But Schmidts team have mental resilience in abundance and despite their faltering start they managed to wrest back the initiative in the 20 minutes before half time, going in 7-6 up after Conor Murray bulldozed his 6ft 2in frame over the line from close range after a clearout from the excellent Ringrose.Ireland could and maybe should have been six points better off at the interval. Captain Rory Best had promised in the build-up that his team would remain committed to the more attacking philosophy they have shown in the last 12 months, and he was true to his word. Ireland repeatedly eschewing kickable penalties in favour of kicks for the corner, or quick tap penalties.oach Guy Novs would have been delighted with the score at the break. But there were signs, as Ireland battered away in the minutes before half- time, that Sexton was beginning to hit his straps. Irelands fly-half was finding joy with a midfield loop, passing to his centres and then lopping around to collect the ball again. From one such move, Sexton streaked clear, kicking over the top for Keith Earls to chase.I thought he was really, really positive for us, Schmidt said of Sextons performance. We varied it up a bit in the second half because we had to try to get them chasing things. I thought he did it superbly  a couple of great kicks in behind. And we know he never shirks his defensive responsibilities.he second half continued in the much the same vein. Ireland on the front foot, Sexton growing in confidence all the time, putting over two penalties and then punching the air in delight after sending a drop goal attempt sailing through the uprights. It was Irelands first successful drop goal since 2011. Sexton departed to a standing ovation when he was replaced by Jackson with 12 minutes remaining.By then Ireland were home. Honourable mentions go to Ringrose who seemed to break almost at will, and man of the match Murray who looked happier with Sexton outside him. Camille Lopez penalty brought it back to 16-9, but Jackson swiftly restored Irelands 10-point lead and that was how things stayed.Ireland are still in this tournament. Next up Wales. You dont go to Cardiff and get anything easy, warned Schmidt. True. But Ireland are right back in this now.exton was very good on his return for Ireland. Giving the home side a massive boost in its bid to win this year's title. solid well done job by Ireland. The second half lacked sparkle, hampered by the rain, but Ireland slowly wore the visitors down and did what was needed.As against England, France showed some impressive flashes of play. But they were flashes, they can't seem to sustain things. Too many errors at moments when they should be turning the screw.reland's impressive run at home in this Championship continues. England's visit should be a heck of a clash.hat's it. The ball is kicked out after a short attack. It'sIreland's biggest win since 1975 against France.reland work through the phases, we are up to number 11. But they've barely gone anywhere, not that Ireland will care.Picamoles pinged at the breakdown, played off his feet by his feet, it seems. Easy kick for Paddy Jackson to seal this game.Bad leg twist at the maul there it seems one of the French players, his leg was trapped. We play on. Seems to be ok.After ten phases Ireland infringe and we get a penalty in the 22, fairly central. France go for the posts.ame slowly drifting away from France. They win a penalty outside their own 22 as O'Brien gets caught at the breakdown.es, he rolls Sean O'Brien at the neck atthe breakdown. Just a penalty is the call. France angry as player tackled off ball moments earlier, but Owens deems advantage over....ball must have been in play three minutes...it finally ends. But we are going to TMO for a possible neck roll against Ben Arous.rance make a few yards but are driven into touch from the lineout. Irish lineout about 10 metres out.France turnover five metres out and counter. They are soon up to the 10m line. Penalty advantage. France play on, but Ireland keep holding for a half dozen phases...advantage over as they reach halfway...Le Roux off and Charles Ollivon on in French backrow. Also, Henry Chavancy on for Lamerat (first cap)....18 phases and dropped by McGrath. Spedding breaks out, kicks to the 10m line. Ireland gather then lose it to Lopez.lmost dropped. but Ireland keep it alive. 'Soap didn't hit the shower floor,' says Miles Harrison on ITV.rance in a bit of a muddle here. All the momentum and energy with Ireland now. France try to attack in their own half but fizzles out instantly. Ireland counter and then keep pinning France back with kicks.Lovely play from Ireland. Sexton seems to be about to kick, and releases Zebo. Lovely interplay. Sexton down injured, but France keep marching on. Seven metres short...ourdon breaks early at the scrum. Penalty to Ireland in the middle of the park, just outside the 22. France being slowly strangled here.opez makes a nice break from a counter but then finds a defender with his pass in the tackle. Ireland put it in the French half.Subs coming up here. Vahaamahona, Slimani and Baille off for France. On comes Uini Antonio, Eddy Ben Arous and Julien Le Devedec.France work the phases, going through ten before a forward pass meant for Huget kills off the move.rance give up a daft penalty in their own 22. Serin holds Murray at the scrum as Picamoles picks up at the base of the scrum. Easy kick for Sexton. Lots of push and pulling by both nines, but Serin loses this one.pedding drops a Sexton up and under on the edge of the 22. Ireland gather. CJ Stander (!) does a cross kick. But it doesn't come off. Lineout on the 22 to Ireland.ery hard to predict this one. France looking very dangerous in spurts but not taking their chances when on offer.Ireland have held on at critical points and the worked hard to not just get back in the game, but sneak a lead.reland go wide right, Sexton looping. Finds Ringrose with a good pass. Ireland soon up the 22m from their own half.nother penalty. Ireland go over but no try giving. Owens calls a time out and calls French captain Guirado and gives France an official warning.uge hit from Picamoles stops the attack. We come back for a penalty against France for a high tackle.Ireland take a tap penalty! They catch France unawares and get withing yards of the line.But we get another penalty for off the feet by the French tryline. Sexton puts into the corner.rance again kick short. They win it back and spin it out wide left quickly. They soon make it withina short distance of the Irish 22.RY! After the scrum breaks down, Ireland put Henshaw into contact. The ball recycles and Murray goes over from a metre.Sexton chips to the corner. Lamerat misses the ball but Earls is just beaten to the ball in goal by Huget. Five metre scrum to Ireland by the righthand corner.enalty at the scrum, Owens blames Ireland for the collapse. Lopez clears his lines. Five penalties against Ireland now.onor Murray darts into the 22 with a clever snipe. Possible tip tackle by France, but Owens is ok with it.Instead we come back for lifting the legs at the maul, by France. Sexton opts to kick into the 22 for a lineout.J Stander takes Ireland into the French 22, but they are immediately turned over. Spedding clears. Aggressive play at the breakdown from France. Lamerat the key man here.wens having trouble communicating with the French (using 'fake' instead of 'dummy' after some confusion after a call). This has been a big topic recently. Should referees have working levelFrench in these games?e come back for a penalty near the sticks. Sexton tries to argue against the advantage. But Owens said they infringed twice.olid scrum from France. But it doesn't move. They use it. Held a dew short. Ireland offside. Advantage.Try! Free shot for France. They cross kick. After a knock down, some confusion, it seems a score from Lamerat but we go to TMO.Patient play from Ireland in the French half. They keep it for eight phases before losing in the tackle.Huge mistake from Zebo. He tries to keep it in and instead knocks it dead into the goal area. Five metre scrum to France. Huge play!ood first up defence from Irleand. Than Fickou makes a lovely offload to keep the ball alive. A lovely break from Serin at scrum-half takes France deep into the 22.Ireland save it, but it's a penalty advantage for off the feet at the breakdown by Heaslip. He obviously decided to risk three, rather than seven.The play dies off and we come back for the penalty.reland working some phases now. But after seven crash ups, Picamoles steals it. France stumble at first, but then Fickou counters. Lovely run.From the next breakdown Earls goes off his feet. He argues it with Owens (he is Earls after all). Scott Spedding puts it into touch just beyond the Irish 10m line.t's a very fast start here. Both teams putting width on the ball. Ireland's next attack see them gain a lineout in the French half.France look sharp already, they go touchline to touchline and make 40 odd metres, before Lopez knocks on. France looking to attack Ireland from the off.hort kick off. Ireland just gather through Kearney. Early ambition from the home side. They put it through the hands early on before Conor Murray box kicks to the French half.rance have made three changes: Yoann Huget will start at right wing in place of the excellent Virimi Vakatawa (Noa Nakaitaci switches to the left).Bernard Le Roux in at blindside for Loann Goujan and Rabah Slimani is in at prop for the benched Uini Atonio.Scott Spedding, Yoann Huget, Remi Lamerat, Gael Fickou, Noa Nakaitaci, Camille Lopez, Baptiste Serin; Louis Picamoles, Kevin Gourdon, Bernard Le Roux, Yoann Maestri, Sebastien Vahaamahina, Rabah Slimani, Guilhem Guirado (c), Cyril Baille.Christopher Tolofua, Uini Atonio, Eddy Ben Arous, Julien Le Devedec, Charles Ollivon, Maxime Machenaud, Henry Chavancy, Djibril Camaraory Best returns after illness to captain the home side at hooker. DJ Church (Cian Healy) steps down to the bench with Jack McGrath called up at loosehead.The big news is Johnny Sexton returning at ten in place of Paddy Jackson. Its Sextons first game since January 10th for Leinster in the Champions Cup.Irelands starting XV has 700 test caps between them (the bench has a 234 caps). The average age of the walk-on team is 28.9 years and on the bench the average is 27.2Rob Kearney, Keith Earls, Garry Ringrose, Robbie Henshaw, Simon Zebo, Jonathan Sexton, Conor Murray; Jack McGrath, Rory Best (c), Tadhg Furlong, Donnacha Ryan, Devin Toner, CJ Stander, Sean O'Brien, Jamie Heaslip. Niall Scannell, Cian Healy, John Ryan, Iain Henderson, Peter O'Mahony, Kieran Marmion, Paddy Jackson, Andrew Trimbleuch has been made in the build up of France potentially targeting Johnny Sexton in this match after perceived victimisation in previous fixtures.What a question? I mean, when has a pack of forwards ever looked to target a fly-half before. Im not sure that has ever happened in rugby before. Answers on a postcard please if you know otherwise.or Irish fans, this match needs no introduction at all. Irelands favourite Kiwi Warren Gatland guided Ireland to a famous 27-25 win in Paris.eres a bit of classic Irish rugby history (and a classic 1970s Irish type try). The 1975 game saw Ireland beat France 25-6. Apart from a win in 1983, Ireland would not beat France again until 2000.h, the days of Phillipe Sella. Heres some classic action from the 1988 championship. France, who would share the title that year with Wales (no points difference or bonus points then), ran out 25-6 winners.his will be the 96th clash between Ireland and France since 1909. France lead the series by 56 wins to 32 with seven games drawn.rance also come into the game with one win and one loss. They had every chance to beat England at Twickenham in the opener, but despite some excellent rugby at times, lacked the edge (and possibly fitness) to close it out.They got back on track though in the next game, despite an abomination of a rugby jersey, holding off a spirited Scotland by 22-16.rustratingly for Ireland, their grand slam hopes evaporated in the opening match this year, as they fell in Edinburgh by 27-22.reland took Italy to the cleaners in Rome a fortnight ago, cantering how 63-10. The haul included a double hat-trick - one from a forward and one from a sub (CJ Stander and Craig Gilroy).elcome to the second match of the Six Nations this weekend. We now turn to Dublin as France come visiting.As always, well bring you up the last minute build up, all the match action and shenanigans and post game fallout.You can get involved be sending us your rants, raves, feedbacks and stunning tactical observations to ITV will have full live coverage of the clash with build up from 4.15pm. Alternatively, you could follow the latest with our live blog.Ireland captain Rory Best and fly-half Jonathan Sexton have returned to the team for the clash against France.Best missed the victory over Italy through illness while Sexton will play his first match in this season's tournament after recovering from a calf strain.Sexton, who replaces Paddy Jackson at number 10, has not played since he aggravated the injury while playing for Leinster in the European Champions Cup on Jan. 20.Rob Kearney, Keith Earls, Garry Ringrose, Robbie Henshaw, Simon Zebo, Jonathan Sexton, Conor Murray; Jack McGrath, Rory Best, Tadhg Furlong, Donnacha Ryan, Devin Toner, CJ Stander, Sean O'Brien, Jamie Heaslip.Niall Scannell, Cian Healy, John Ryan, Iain Henderson, Peter O'Mahony, Kieran Marmion, Paddy Jackson, Andrew Trimble.France coach Guy Noves has made three changes. Yoann Huget will start at right wing instead of Virimi Vakatawa, who has a thigh problem, with Noa Nakaitaci switching over to the left wing to accommodate Huget.The other two changes are in the forwards. South African-born Bernard Le Roux will come in at flanker for the injured Loann Goujon, and Rabah Slimani - France's try scorer against England - will replace prop Uini Atonio, who is out of form and has been benched.Scott Spedding, Yoann Huget, Remi Lamerat, Gael Fickou, Noa Nakaitaci, Camille Lopez, Baptiste Serin; Louis Picamoles, Kevin Gourdon, Bernard Le Roux, Yoann Maestri, Sebastien Vahaamahina, Rabah Slimani, Guilhem Guirado (captain), Cyril Baille.Christopher Tolofua, Uini Atonio, Eddy Ben Arous, Julien Le Devedec, Charles Ollivon, Maxime Machenaud, Henry Chavancy, Djibril Camara."It was a call like any other, we debated it and we do believe we get a good balance with having both players available."It's a balance, and I think on Saturday based on how things have gone in the past we'll probably see both players in some positions in some stage of the game."He's done a lot of conditioning in the period of his injury, and fitness is never really an issue for Johnny, it's just making sure he's fully fit."And he is. He trained well today and fully on Tuesday. He's highly motivated to get into the game on Saturday.""Ireland, unquestionably, are one of the best nations. They are the only team that beat New Zealand (40-29, in Chicago last November)."They are a team that may have temporarily fallen asleep against Scotland (where they were beaten 27-22, in the opening round of the tournament), but who reacted immediately by putting 60 points (10-63) to Italy."Ireland will be smarting after defeat to France in Paris last year and will gain revenge over Guy Noves' side. We fancy Ireland to win 19-13.In order to bring you award-winning content and investigative journalism from your favourite writers, we rely on revenue generated by advertising.undreds of thousands of people who established trusts as a way of limiting inheritance tax liabilities will have to hurriedly re-arrange their affairs  or risk losing out on a valuable new tax perk.Until recently well-off families were encouraged by financial advisers and solicitors to use discretionary trusts to pass on property to their children.But from 6 April this year, the new main resident nil-rate band for inheritance tax  better known as the family home allowance  takes effect, and trusts are explicitly excluded.)is to give an additional IHT allowance on top of the usual 325,000 per person. By the time the changes are fully rolled out in the 2020-2021 tax year, a couple will be able to pass on a property worth 1m free of tax.However, Gary Kiely, a wills and trust specialist at law firm Blaser Mills, estimated hundreds of thousands of people could miss out on the expanded allowance unless they dismantle trust arrangements.It is difficult to know exactly how many wills need to be rewritten because there is not a central registry of trusts and the contents of wills are private. hold a will and in the past  particularly before 2007, when IHT rules changed  people establishing wills with the help of a solicitor or adviser are likely to have included a trust.He said: It needs to be stressed to people that if theres a discretionary trust sitting there and the first spouse dies, the children need to do something.The allowance is only granted where a property is inherited by direct descendants, including children, stepchildren, adopted and foster children and grandchildren.  are excluded because here the assets are technically owned by the trust, and controlled by the trustees, not the beneficiaries.The trust itself does not exist until triggered by the death of the second spouse, so there is nothing to unwind  but the order to establish a trustmust be removed. Beneficiaries of a will have two years from the death of the second parent to disband the trust, using a All parties have to agree to this  any beneficiaries as well as the trustees, often close friends or neighbours, chosen by the person who originally wrote the trust into their will. A variation takes place as if the deceased had made changes to their will themselves.If two years pass before a variation is undertaken, the original will is adhered to and the allowance lost for good. Mr Kiely warned a variation can only be used if none of the beneficiaries are minors.A decade ago discretionary trusts were incredibly popular because they allowed a couple to combine both their IHT allowances which at the time could not be transferred as they can today.Without using a trust, the tax-free allowance from the first of a couple to die would die with them. On the second death only a single allowance remained.But in October 2007 then chancellor Alistair Darling announced married couples and civil partners could transfer their unused allowance to a surviving spouse. The change took immediate effect and, for many, rendered discretionary trusts irrelevant.Yet they remained popular because they allow greater control over what happens to assets after death, and are particularly useful where there are children from more than one marriage.In order to bring you award-winning content and investigative journalism from your favourite writers, we rely on revenue generated by advertising.ur collective obsession with the internet grows stronger every year. UK adults are online for 25 hours a week, up from nine in 2005, according to a recentYet the digital revolution seems to have passed many business owners by. More than a half of small businesses in the UK still dont have a website, claimed a  last year by RedShift Research and GoDaddy. The reasons for not venturing online ranged from not having enough time, to a belief that the cost would be prohibitive and that business growth would suffer as a result.The reality is that getting online is not only simple and cheap (and in many cases, free); its also good for business. If youre thinking about setting up your virtual stall, but not sure where or how to begin, here are some tips.Theres a place on the web for every type of business, so the first decision to make is where works best for you. Instead of hosting their own website, many small businesses selling consumer goods live within the big online marketplaces, such as Businesses also operate through social platforms such as Facebook or Instagram to leverage their power and reach. Emma Jones, founder of business network , says: Facebook is a brilliant tool, first of all because 2 billion people are already there, but you can also use the platform to target potential customers incredibly well.. You can also reach people online by simply getting your business listed on a digital directory such as , which provide a drag-and-drop design interface, making the whole process easier. The website templates offered by these sites also come with third-party plug-ins, which allow for the addition of email services such asWebsite builders can also act as an outsourced tech department, making sure your site stays up and is well optimised for a small monthly fee.Your website needs to be mobile friendly, not only to reach consumers on the go, but to stay on the right side of . The site should also be easily navigable, present a clear call to action for visitors, direct them to your social media channels, and (ideally) offer regular content, such as blogs and photos.It should also showcase your business credibility, so if youre a member of an accredited industry body, advertise that fact. Embedding a newsletter or mailing list sign-up form is a good way to build a database of customers. Ms Jones also advises choosing .com as a domain to boost credibility and add global appeal. She points to A good way to identify keywords to use on your site, and improve search engine optimisation (SEO), is to ask your customers what they would type into Google to find you. Hosting a blog that search engines and your readers will engage with also helps. to find out where your visitors are coming from, and how long they spend on your site. Google Analytics is probably the most important thing you can install, she says.If youre building your site with the help of a website template, you will be provided with payment plug-ins, allowing you to add a button from an online payment provider such as . But remember: collecting sensitive data such, as credit cards details, online requires an SSL Certificate to authenticate the identity of your website and encrypt the data that's being transmitted.Having a blog on your website not only benefits your SEO, it brings your business to life, says Ms Sweales. The key to blogging is: dont sell. For ideas on what to blog about, she says to think about topics that your customers will be interested in and fall into to your area of expertise. If finding the time to blog is a challenge, remember that posts can be kept short. Author daily blog features posts that are sometimes a few lines long. Post little and often, Ms Jones says.Being active on platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and LinkedIn is a great way to build your following and share your expertise. However, choosing where to begin can be a challenge.The question we get a lot from small business owners is: which platform I should use? says Ms Jones. My advice is to start out doing a little bit on all of them and measure whats working, and where people are navigating to on your website. You can do all of that using Google Analytics.Your site must state your businesss terms and conditions and, if youre selling products online, your customers will need to see that youve signed up to rules such as the . Its also worth checking out your competitors websites for guidance on the terms and conditions to include. As a website owner, you must be transparent about cookies on your website and, where possible, obtain visitors consent to use them. Businesses that handle customer data need to register with the In order to bring you award-winning content and investigative journalism from your favourite writers, we rely on revenue generated by advertising.housands of children and teenagers with anorexia are being forced to wait months for help, amid a growing crisis in services to treat eating disorders. reveals a dramatic fall in provision of hospital appointments for the condition, forcing patients to wait longer, with some in need of inpatient care travelling hundreds of miles.The NHS data shows that in just two years, there has been a 36 per cent reduction in the number of hospital appointments for eating disorders across the country.eanwhile, an audit of services for children and teenagers shows that just one in six areas are meeting standards intended to speed up treatment for the most vulnerable.Charities last night said the disclosures were alarming and reflecteda national scandal in care of the most vulnerable. Some patients were effectively being told that they could not get help until they had starved themselves further, they warned.NHS data obtained by this newspaper, shows that in 2015/16, health services in England carried out just 14,847 outpatient appointments for patients with eating disorders  a drop from 23,266 in 2013/14.Experts said waiting lists were now reaching 16 months in some parts of the country, with young patients in need of admission being sent from Leicester to Edinburgh in search of a bed.Jeremy Hunt said: When children are in urgent need of support from the NHS its vital that they get fast, high-quality care  and clearly in some of the cases highlighted this simply has not happened.While mental health services have for too long been a poor relation to physical health, as the Prime Minister has said, we are determined to turn this round.The standards include a four-week waiting time for most referrals, dropping to one week for cases which are identified as urgent.But an audit of NHS services, seen by this newspaper, shows just 14 per cent of areas referring urgent cases within a week, while only 18 per cent managed to ensure remaining cases started treatment within a month.The NHS does not publish any official figures on waiting times for treatment for eating disorders, although it has promised to start publishing those for children and young people from May.The Royal College of Psychiatrists last night warned that some patients were waiting as long as 16 months for help, amid a growing NHS financial crisis.r Agnes Ayton, vice chairman of its faculty of eating disorders, said: We are seeing waits of up to 16 months for non-urgent referrals. It is really worrying, because we know that the more quickly people start receiving treatment the quicker they are to respond to it.The consultant psychiatrist from Oxford Health NHS Foundation Trust said strain on NHS finances was forcing patients to wait: A lot of trusts are tryingto make savings at a time when we have seen a huge increase in demand, she said.Andrew Radford, chief executive of Beat, the UKs charity for eating disorders, said the situation had become a national scandal.These figures are evidence of fairly horrific rationing of care  whether it means longer waiting times, or fewer appointments once you are in the system, he said. This is threatening lives.r Hunt said that by 2020, 95 per cent of children with suspected eating disorders would be seen within the four and one week target times, thanks to an 150 million investment in services.These are distressing conditions, and so we want to ensure greater and more even coverage across the country to help more children to get the proper care, he said.onsultant psychiatrist Dr Navjot Bedi, who runs an inpatient unit for adults at the Glenfield Hospital in Leicester  the regional unit for the East Midlands said its waiting times had doubled from four to eight weeks over the last decade. Patients treated at the childrens unit have been sent as far as Edinburgh, last year, amid a shortage of beds, she said.Psychiatrists elsewhere said beds were free only long enough to be cleaned, with a doubling in waiting times, and patients regularly sent north of the border.Dr Marc Bush, chief policy adviser at YoungMinds, the charity for young people with mental health problems, said: Early intervention for eating disorders is crucial, so its alarming that there has been a sharp drop in access to outpatient services.In order to bring you award-winning content and investigative journalism from your favourite writers, we rely on revenue generated by advertising.The truck ploughed into revellers in the Krewe of Endymion parade, which one of several events leading up to the main Mardi Gras festivities.Local news sources said it is believed that a drunk driver was responsible for the carnage. At least one person has been arrested.First pictures from Orleans & Carrollton, where at least a dozen are critical after a vehicle slammed into the Endymion crowd. arrie Kinsella told the paper that she felt the silver truck whisking past her. I actually literally felt it. I felt a rush it was so fast, she said.The Krewe of Endymion parade has attracted a number of celebrity guests in the past, including Fats Domino, Smokey Robinson, Britney Spears, Chuck Norris and the Beach Boys.The incident took place five hours after a man was shot and wounded. Police believe the gun was fired by accident.In order to bring you award-winning content and investigative journalism from your favourite writers, we rely on revenue generated by advertising.MPs were ordered to claim that holding Copeland was always an uphill task just hours after their historic defeat, leaked briefing notes have revealed.A script urged MP to claim that winning the seat - whichLabourhad held for the 80 years - was always going to be difficult.The politicians were also told to praiseLabours campaign there as excellent and blame very specific local issues for their loss.The 600-word spinning notes were emailed to MPs around 8.10am on Friday morning as the party went into damage limitation mode after the by-election defeat.In Copeland we fought a good campaign, but it was always going to be an uphill task in a marginal seat with particular unique circumstances in play and the Tories threw everything at it, MPs were urged to say.The full document has been passed to The Sunday Telegraph amid fury that the party leadership is trying to shift blame from themselves.ne critic said: This farcical array of excuses is just the latest weak defence in the downfall of a failing hard Left project.Two leaders of unions officially affiliated toLabourhave attacked Mr Corbyns leadership in private conversations with The Sunday Telegraph.One compared him to Arsene Wenger, the struggling Arsenal manager facing a fans revolt, and calledLabours current situation untenable.A second leader urged Mr Corbyn to reconsider his position if the party continues to trail the Tories in the opinion polls so dramatically.Tom Watson, the deputyLabourleader, on Saturday urged the leadership to take a long hard look at itself - but said Corbyn should not go now.n the wake of the defeat Mr Corbyns allies blamed everything from Tony Blair and Lord Mandelson to the poor weather and Brexit for their defeat.It has now emerged thatLabourMPs were urged to play down the partys chances of ever holding to the seat in the first place.Briefing notes sent to MPs read: Winning in Copeland was always going to be difficult: its a marginal seat with a small majority and there were very specific local issues, including the future of the nuclear industry which the Tories focused on, misleadingly claimingLabourwould threaten jobs, despite the fact that Jeremy Corbyn spelled outLabours commitment to the industry.This has been a marginal seat for a long time, theLabourvote has been declining in Copeland since 1997 and obviouslyLabours current polling position is not where it should be.The Tories threw everything at Copeland, Theresa May unusually made a personal visit and they poured resources into the campaign. Its also true to say that politics is presently in a period of flux following the recent Brexit referendum.Throw into the mix low turnout and this was always going to be challenging, but we fought hard, standing up against Tory cuts to the NHS.Ps were urged to focus instead on Stoke-on-Trent Central, whereLabourbeat Ukips Paul Nuttall into second and held the seat - albeit with a reduced majority.In many ways the real story is of a terrible night for Ukip, they were urged to say about the two by-election results.Meanwhile two union leaders affiliated toLabourcriticised Mr Corbyn privately. One said: We certainly dont wait until 2020 [to get rid of Mr Corbyn], it will be too bloody late then, thats the reality.Its a bit like the Wenger situation [at Arsenal.] I think individuals who are very bright and intelligent, like Arsene Wenger and Jeremy Corbyn, need to understand for themselves when the times up.A second union leader said: You would have to be on another planet not to be aware of the problem and the chances of aLabourvictory. It is not rocket science this.There is a massive chasm between delivering policy, delivering a Government. If the Conservative chose a snap electionLabourcould be wiped out.Its been a mixed night. Weve had a good win in Stoke-on-Trent Central, although were obviously disappointed to have lost in Copeland.Labours win in Stoke-on-Trent Central is a decisive rejection of UKIP's claims to represent working class people. The people of Stoke have said no to UKIP's politics of division and dishonesty.In Copeland we fought a good campaign, but it was always going to be an uphill task in a marginal seat with particular unique circumstances in play and the Tories threw everything at it.Obviously its a mixed night in that we wanted, and aimed, to win both seats, but that was always going to be an uphill task and there were particular unique circumstances in play in Copeland.It's disappointing to have lost Copeland. We had a strong candidate in Gillian Troughton, and ran an excellent campaign focused on local issues, but obviously it wasn't enough.Winning in Copeland was always going to be difficult: its a marginal seat with a small majority and there were very specific local issues, including the future of the nuclear industry which the Tories focused on, misleadingly claiming Labour would threaten jobs, despite the fact that Jeremy Corbyn spelled out Labours commitment to the industry.This has been a marginal seat for a long time, the Labour vote has been declining in Copeland since 1997 and obviously Labour's current polling position is not where it should be.The Tories threw everything at Copeland, Theresa May unusually made a personal visit and they poured resources into the campaign. Its also true to say that politics is presently in a period of flux following the recent Brexit referendum. Throw into the mix low turnout and this was always going to be challenging, but we fought hard, standing up against Tory cuts to the NHS.Of course were very pleased to have won in Stoke-on-Trent Central. Its a good result in a seat both the Tories and UKIP were gunning for.So while wed acknowledge that theres more to do for Labour, winning in Stoke-on-Trent shows that we are competitive and that we are standing up to this failing Tory government, fighting for our NHS and for building an economy that works for everyone.Losing in Stoke-on-Trent isnt good for the Tories and Theresa May. They threw everything at it and Theresa May visited there too, showing that she thought she could win. Many people said the Tories were on track to win both seats and they were briefing that they expected to do well and possibly win both seats. That they havent is a blow for them and the Prime Minister.In many ways the real story is of a terrible night for UKIP. They threw absolutely everything at Stoke-on-Trent: their party leader was their candidate in a seat they said was their best chance of getting a win. This is a decisive rejection of UKIP's claims to represent working class people. The people of Stoke have rejected UKIP's politics of division and dishonesty.Nigel Farage said recently that winning in Stoke-on-Trent was fundamental to the future of UKIP and the fact that they have lost is a hammer blow to them. This campaign has exposed them and Paul Nuttall, as a party and leader who want to privatise the NHS and who offer nothing to working people. This was supposed to be the seat where they showed they could be an alternative to Labour but after this result that claim lies in tatters.In order to bring you award-winning content and investigative journalism from your favourite writers, we rely on revenue generated by advertising.city of Heidelberg on Saturday, killing one person and injuring two others, then fled on foot brandishing a knife before being intercepted and shot by police officers.with their guns drawn, who shouted orders at him and then opened fire after a tense standoff on a footpath next to a restaurant.One of the three people hit outside a bakery in a central square of the picturesque town was seriously injured, Anne Baas, a police spokeswoman,said. Police later said the pedestrian had been killed.Police said they did not know have any information on the motives for the attack, which comes just over two months after an asylum seeker killed 12 people when he drove a lorry into a crowd in Berlin, but said that initial findings suggested it was not terrorism-related. The suspect was identified as a 35-year-old German man.He got out of his Hamburg-registered rental car after ploughing into the three people and was seen brandishing a black-handled knife as he made off.olice intercepted him just five hundred yards away and ordered him to put down his weapon during a short standoff, Police said they could not confirm local media reports that the man was mentally disturbed. They said he appeared to have acted alone.Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) claimed responsibility for the attack, and released a video of the attacker, Anis Amri, pledging allegiance to its leader.Amri then went on the run across Europe and was killed a few days later in a shoot-out with Italian police in Milan.ast July dozens of people were killed, including children, when a lorry ploughed into a large crowd watching a fireworks display in the southern French city of Nice to mark the Bastille Day national holiday.The driver of the lorry, identified as 31-year-old Tunisian called Mohamed Lahouaiej-Bouhlel, was shot dead by police., a local newspaper, said Saturday's incident happened after a man stoppedat a red traffic light and when it turned green put his foot down before hitting the group of people at high speed and smashing into a pillar.The man who died from his injuries in hospital about two hours after the attack was a 73-year-old German citizen, police and the Heidelberg state prosecutor said in a statement.The other two people injured were a 32-year-old Austrian man and a 29-year-old woman from Bosnia. Both were treated for minor injuries before being discharged.In order to bring you award-winning content and investigative journalism from your favourite writers, we rely on revenue generated by advertising.