the-guardian-uk
Senior Labour figures have demanded that Jeremy Corbyn orders a full postmortem on the partys byelection humiliation in  amid fears that it could spark a meltdown in England comparable to Labours 2015 annihilation in Scotland. and Brexit spokesman Keir Starmer both delivered pointed criticism of Corbyn for his refusal to take any blame for the loss of the Labour stronghold, saying it was time for the leadership to undertake a thorough re-examination of the partys entire direction.Watson, speaking at the Scottish Labour conference in Perth, raised the spectre of the partys virtual wipeout in Scotland being repeated south of the border, as he called for Starmer, in a speech in London, said the worst thing Labour could do would be to normalise defeat and walk past results that were disastrous for the party and merited an honest admission that all was far from well. Pressure on Corbyn mounted further as  who is challenging Corbyns close ally Len McCluskey for the leadership of the super-union Unite, weighed in. Coyne suggested in an interview with the The reality is that Unite has put an awful lot of money into funding a leader of the Labour party that seems to be out of step with the industrial policies and needs of our members, In the most dramatic byelection result since the 1980s, the Tories took the Cumbrian seat of Copeland  which had not been out of Labour control since 1935  achieving the first gain by a sitting government in 35 years.Corbyn admitted to disappointment at the result but took comfort from Labour retaining the rock-solid seat of Stoke-on-Trent Central in the face of a challenge from Ukip. Asked if he should look in the mirror and blame himself for the The result has led to fears among senior MPs that Labour could now lose dozens of previously solid seats to the Tories as Theresa May bolsters her popularity with a firm line on  and immigration, and remodels the Tory party as once more in tune with the interests of working people., Watson said he was hugely disappointed with a result that meant that all of us with leadership roles need to have a long, hard look at ourselves and ask whats not working. Seven years into a Tory government, we shouldnt be facing questions about whether we can hold the seats we already hold.Referring to the partys virtual wipe-out north of the border, he said: Here in Scotland, youve seen what happens when Labours long-term supporters stop voting Labour. We cant afford to have that happen in England, too. This is not the time for a leadership election. That issue was settled last year. But we have to do better. We cannot sustain this level of distance from the electorate, from our natural supporters.Starmer said: The Labour party exists to change peoples lives. But we cant do that if we dont win elections. Copeland was a very bad result for Labour. I dont think weve been honest enough about how bad it was.. [We cant] walk past results we know are letting down the people that most need a Labour government., says Labour is haemorrhaging support among people it should regard as its core voters, with many heading straight into the arms of the Conservatives.Labours collapse among working-class voters is catastrophic  according to YouGov, only 16% would vote Labour at the moment. Thats troubling enough for the party of working people, but it is made doubly damaging because, contrary to expectations, Ukip is not proving the main beneficiary, he says. These voters are increasingly voting Conservative. After seven years of Tory austerity, Labour is 15 points behind the Conservatives among working-class likely voters, having been ahead in 2015.While the proportion of the population that is working class is falling steadily, it remains hard to see a route to power for a Labour party if it cannot secure a majority in this group.Watson also used his speech to denounce the idea of any form of alliance with another party to see off the Tories. The idea of a progressive alliance is an electoral dead end. The last general election should have made that absolutely obvious to us all. Remember those awful posters, Ed Miliband in Alex Salmonds pocket? They were brutal, they were unfair, but they were effective.The Tories weaponised the idea of a progressive alliance  of Labour propped up by the SNP  and used it as an electoral stick to beat us with. Telling the people of Scotland that they didnt need to vote Labour to get a Labour government, and telling the people of England that a vote for the Labour party was a vote for the SNP. poll reveals that more than a third of Labour voters (34%) would be more likely to vote for the party if Corbyn were replaced as leader.Robert Mercer, who bankrolled Donald Trump, played key role with sinister advice on using Facebook dataThe US billionaire who helped bankroll Donald Trumps campaign for the presidency played a key role in the campaign for Britain to leave the EU, the It has emerged that Robert Mercer, a hedge-fund billionaire, who helped to finance the Trump campaign and who was revealed this weekend as one of the owners of the rightwing Breitbart News Network, is a long-time friend of Nigel Farage. He directed his data analytics firm to provide expert advice to  on how to target swing voters via Facebook  a donation of services that was not declared to the electoral commission.Cambridge Analytica, an offshoot of a British company, SCL Group, which has 25 years experience in military disinformation campaigns and election management, claims to use cutting-edge technology to build intimate psychometric profiles of voters to find and target their emotional triggers. Trumps team paid the firm more than $6m (4.8m) to target swing voters, and it has now emerged that Mercer also introduced the firm  in which he has a major stake  to Farage. that the longstanding friendship between Nigel Farage and the Mercer family led Mercer to offer his help  free  to the Brexit campaign because of their shared goals. Wigmore said that he introduced Farage and Leave.eu to Cambridge Analytica: They were happy to help. Because Nigel is a good friend of the Mercers. And Mercer introduced them to us. He said, Heres this company we think may be useful to you. What they were trying to do in the US and what we were trying to do had massive parallels. We shared a lot of information.The strategy involved harvesting data from peoples Facebook and other social media profiles and then using machine learning to spread through their networks. Wigmore admitted the technology and the level of information it gathered from people was creepy. He said the campaign used this information, combined with artificial intelligence, to decide who to target with highly individualised advertisements and had built a database of more than a million people, based on advice Cambridge Analytica supplied. Two weeks ago Arron Banks, Leave.eus founder, stated in a series of tweets that Gerry Gunster (Leave.eus pollster) and Cambridge Analytica with world class AI had helped them gain unprecedented levels of engagement. AI won it for Leave, he said.By law, all donations of services-in-kind worth more than 7,500 must be reported to the electoral commission. A spokesman said that no donation from the company or Mercer to Leave.eu had been filed.Brittany Kaiser, an employee of Cambridge Analytica/SCL, appeared on a panel at a Leave.eu press conference to explain the technology behind the campaign. And in documents Leave.eu filed with the commission, it reported that Cambridge Analytica was a strategic partner.that Cambridge Analytica had worked on the Leave campaign and received a letter from the campaign to say this was untrue. It later wrote to say: It is a US company based in the US. It hasnt worked in British politics. It declined to comment last week on whether it had donated services to Leave.eu.Leave.eu declined to say why it had not declared any donation of services to the electoral commission.Mercer  and his daughter Rebekah  are emerging as key figures in the ascendancy of Trump and, as the details today, the strategic disruption of the mainstream media. A brilliant computer scientist who did pioneering work at IBM in AI, Mercer made billions with Renaissance Technologies, a hedge-fund that specialises in automated trading. As well as financing Trumps campaign, he encouraged Trump to take on two key advisers   revealed him as one of the owners of Breitbart. Bannons role within the Trump administration is being increasingly examined but, until now, Mercers connection has escaped the same sort of close scrutiny  particularly with regard to the media.Breitbart, which has become the leading platform for the alt-right, is only one of a series of investments that aim to change the media landscape and political views not just in the US but also in Britain. A British version of Breitbart was launched in 2014, Bannon told the , explicitly to try to influence the upcoming general election. He and Farage have been close friends since at least 2012 and the site has been an important cheerleader for Ukip, with its editor, Raheem Kassam, at one point working as chief adviser to Farage.Until now, however, it was not known that Mercer had explicitly tried to influence the outcome of the referendum. Drawing on Cambridge Analyticas advice, Leave.eu built up a huge database of supporters creating detailed profiles of their lives through open-source data it harvested via Facebook. The campaign then sent thousands of different versions of advertisements to people depending on what it had learned of their personalities.A leading expert on the impact of technology on elections called the relevation extremely disturbing and quite sinister. Martin Moore, of Kings College London, said that undisclosed support-in-kind is extremely troubling. It undermines the whole basis of our electoral system, that we should have a level playing field.But details of how people were being targeted with this technology raised more serious questions, he said. We have no idea what people were being shown or not, which makes it frankly sinister. Maybe it wasnt, but we have no way of knowing. There is no possibility of public scrutiny. I find this extremely worrying and disturbing. on Saturday capped a week of tumultuous relations with the press by saying he will not attend this years White House correspondents dinner, which is scheduled for 29 April.The news came as relations between the Trump administration and the news media, which he has called , have sunk to new lows. On Friday, leading outlets including the New York Times, CNN and the Guardian were Editors of excluded organisations expressed anger, although White House Correspondents Association (WHCA) president Jeff Mason, of Reuters, attempted to calm troubled waters. In a statement on Saturday, Mason said the WHCA looks forward to having its annual dinner and added: The WHCA takes note of President Donald Trumps announcement on Twitter that he does not plan to attend the dinner, which has been and will continue to be a celebration of the first amendment and the important role played by an independent news media in a healthy republic.We look forward to shining a spotlight at the dinner on some of the best political journalism of the past year and recognizing the promising students who represent the next generation of our profession. in the White House, law enforcement and intelligence agencies about chaos in his administration, alleged contacts between campaign staff and Russian agents, and White House The difficult relationship between Trump  whose senior adviser Steve Bannon, formerly chief of the rightwing website Breitbart News, has repeatedly called the press  followed Vanity Fair and the New Yorker in saying it would not host a party tied to the dinner. The New York Times has not attended the event since 2008; the Guardian will not attend this year. This week, Buzzfeed Trump followed a familiar path on Friday night, when he wrote on Twitter: FAKE NEWS media knowingly doesnt tell the truth. A great danger to our country. The failing Many observers have linked Trumps run for the presidency with events at the 2011 correspondents dinner, in which Barack Obama The dinner is a traditionally lighthearted affair, celebrities mixing with journalists at tables and comedians roasting the president of the day, as Stephen Colbert did to George W Bush in  and Calvin Coolidge was the first president to attend, in 1924. Since then every president has attended the dinner at least once.   after being shot  and Jimmy Carter and Richard Nixon did not always sit down for dinner. Obama attended all eight events while he was in office. the dinner has been cancelled three times: following the death of former president William Howard Taft, in 1930, after the US entry into the second world war in 1942, and in 1951, during the Korean war.In January, Trump skipped the Alfalfa Club dinner, another key event in the social calendar of a city in which the president is happy to pose as an outsider., told the Guardian on Saturday Trump should act as a champion of press freedom around the world, rather than attacking the media in a way that could send a signal to other countries that it is OK to verbally abuse journalists and undermine their credibility. In a statement, Guardian US editor Lee Glendinning said the exclusion of news outlets from Fridays briefing was deeply troubling and divisive and added: Holding power to account is an essential part of the democratic process, and thats exactly what the Guardian will continue to do.Abraham Poincheval is attempting to survive inside a 12-tonne boulder inside a Paris art museum for a week An artist entombed inside a 12-tonne rock for nearly three days has described the experience as like tripping, insisting he would stick it out for a week.Speaking through a crack in the limestone boulder late on Friday, Abraham Poincheval said he had been buoyed by how his performance has got into peoples heads. when the two halves of the rock closed around him on Wednesday at Pariss Palais de Tokyo art museum.Poincheval, 44, had carved out a hole inside the rock in his own image, just big enough for him to sit up in, with a niche to hold supplies of water, soup and dried meat.People seem to be very touched. They come and talk into the crack, read poetry to me, or tell me about their nightmares or their dreams, he said.They are not so much talking to me, I think, as to the stone. I am very happy that the stone has got into their heads.If he survives the ordeal, the performance artist who has previously spent a fortnight sewn-up inside a stuffed bear, will attempt to become a human hen and hatch a dozen eggs by sitting on them for weeks on end.Lack of sleep rather than claustrophobia is his biggest worry inside the darkness of the rock, he confessed.I have some idea of time relative to the museum hours. I hear different sounds. But otherwise I have no sense of day or night, Poincheval said.I can sleep but it is very hard. It is very strange, I dont know whether I am sleeping well or not.Even though he can only move his feet and hands a few inches, I do not feel oppressed (by the rock), I feel completely at ease, in real connection with it.Right now, its sweet. Like when you are starting to climb a mountain. But I know it will get difficult, said Poincheval.For now, it is OK, he said, adding there had been no accidents peeing into his empty water bottles.Right now, its sweet. Like when you are starting to climb a mountain. But I know it will get difficultWe are already locked into our own bodies, the artist told AFP minutes before climbing inside the rock to become what he called the boulders beating heart.Its very complex. You pass from one feeling to an another. Like you are being carried away on a raft, he said. Its like tripping. I am trying to explain (the feelings) in language but it very difficult to put down in black and white.To keep a hold on himself, the man dubbed Frances most extreme artist has been keeping a diary, which he will later publish.He ate worms and beetles while living inside the bear, was buried under a rock for eight days and navigated Frances Rhone river inside a giant plastic corked bottle.He has crossed the Alps in a barrel, and last year spent a week on top of a 20-metre (65-foot) pole outside a Paris train station.The artist also spent 20 days underground as a human mole and lived like a Stone Age man with his former sidekick Laurent Tixador on a small rocky island in the Mediterranean off the southern city of Marseille.As Poincheval finished speaking, a nine-year-old girl called Daria shouted through the crack to tell him that she had been allowed to come and see him for her birthday.Scientists at Vatican conference are searching for a solution to the manmade major extinction eventOne in five species on Earth now faces extinction, and that will rise to 50% by the end of the century unless urgent action is taken. That is the stark view of the worlds leading biologists, ecologists and economists who will gather on Monday to determine the social and economic changes needed to save the planets biosphere.The living fabric of the world is slipping through our fingers without our showing much sign of caring, say the organisers of the Threatened creatures such as the tiger or rhino may make occasional headlines, but little attention is paid to the eradication of most other life forms, they argue. But as the conference will hear, these animals and plants provide us with our food and medicine. They purify our water and air while also absorbing carbon emissions from our cars and factories, regenerating soil, and providing us with aesthetic inspiration.Rich western countries are now siphoning up the planets resources and destroying its ecosystems at an unprecedented rate, said biologist Paul Ehrlich, of Stanford University in California. We want to build highways across the Serengeti to get more rare earth minerals for our cellphones. We grab all the fish from the sea, wreck the coral reefs and put carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. We have triggered a major extinction event. The question is: how do we stop it? has deemed an urgent issue for the Catholic church. We need to unravel the processes that led to the ills we are now facing, said one of the conferences organisers, the economist Sir Partha Dasgupta, of Cambridge University. That is why the Vatican symposia involve natural and social scientists, as well as scholars from the humanities. That the symposia are being held at the Papal Academy is also symbolic. It shows that the ancient hostility between science and the church, at least on the issue of preserving Earths services, has been quelled. is needed to halt the worlds spiralling population  has been denounced by many conservative Catholics. They have set up a petition calling for the pope to withdraw the invitation for him to speak on Monday. I believe they have about 11,000 signatures, Ehrlich told the He remained uncompromising on population control: If you value people, you want to have the maximum number you can support sustainably. You do not want almost 12 billion living unsustainably on Earth by the end of the century  with the result that civilisation will collapse and there are only a few hundred survivors.A world population of around a billion would have an overall pro-life effect, Ehrlich argued. This could be supported for many millennia and sustain many more human lives in the long term compared with our current uncontrolled growth and prospect of sudden collapse.This point was backed by another conference organiser, biologist Professor Peter Raven, of the Missouri Botanical Garden. By the beginning of the next century we face the prospect of losing half our wildlife. Yet we rely on the living world to sustain ourselves. It is very frightening. The extinctions we face pose an even greater threat to civilisation than climate change  for the simple reason they are irreversible.UN statistics suggest that the global population will increase from the current 7.4 billion to 11.2 billion by 2100. And as Dasgupta noted, most of these extra billions will appear in Africa, where the fertility rate is still twice that of the rest of the world.[Africas] population is likely to go from roughly one billion now to around 4 billion, said Dasgupta. Can you imagine what tensions there are going to be there, especially with climate change coming and hitting the continent more than anywhere else? What do you think is going to happen when the arid regions spread, and a hundred million Africans try to swim across the Mediterranean? It is terrifying.The crucial point is to put the problem of biological extinctions in a social context, he said. That gives us a far better opportunity of working out what we need to in the near future. We have to act quickly, however.Ehrlich agreed: If you look at the figures, it is clear that to support todays world population sustainably  and I emphasise the word sustainably  you would require another half a planet to provide us with those resources. However, if everyone consumed resources at the US level  which is what the world aspires to  you will need another four or five Earths.We are wrecking our planets life support systems. We have the capacity to stop that. The trouble is that the danger does not seem obvious to most people, and that is something we must put right., is facing more questions about whether he circumvented anti-doping rules following fresh allegations he abused prescription medicines and used prohibited infusions to boost testosterone levels of his athletes at the Nike Oregon Project.has reported it received a leaked United States Anti-Doping Agency report and other documents from the Russian hackers Fancy Bears that suggested Farah was among athletes who were given prescription drugs when they had no medical need. Salazar believed the medications would lead them to run faster.The newspaper also alleged Farah and other Nike Oregon Project athletes were given infusions of the amino acid L-carnitine, which Salazar raved about to Lance Armstrong, telling him: Lance call me asap! We have tested it and its amazing, before the cycling stars downfall.L-carnitine is not a banned substance but infusions of more than 50ml in the space of six hours are prohibited. According to the paper, Usada believes the L-carnitine infusions given by intravenous drip to six top American runners training with Salazar almost certainly broke anti-doping rules.The report, written in March 2016, also states Usada found substantial and compelling evidence that Salazar and the doctor, Jeffrey Brown, conspired to collude together to use medications in sometimes potentially unlawful ways to boost athletic performance. Browns lawyers have denied the charges and said L-carnitine use was approved by Usada. story does not say whether these issues have been resolved since the report was written and it remains possible they have been addressed., including giving Farahs training partner, Galen Rupp, testosterone when he was 16. He strongly rejected all the allegations, and Farah has stuck by him ever since. designed to naturally boost his levels, and that photographic evidence of testosterone being noted in his medical notes was a recording error. Galen has clearly stated he did not take testosterone in December 2002 or at any other time, Salazar said.: To our knowledge, all doses administered and methods of administration have been fully in accordance with In the past Wada has accused the Fancy Bears of doctoring reports and it remains unclear if that is the case with these latest revelations.are being reconsidered by ministers amid fears in Whitehall that they would add to the homelessness bill and run contrary to Theresa Mays pledge  understands that the policy, announced by David Cameron and George Osborne and due to be introduced in April, is being looked at again, as housing and homeless organisations warn it will cause grave hardship and force cash-strapped councils to meet higher costs for emergency accommodation.Sources who have been involved in discussions with senior civil servants and ministers say the plans, which would affect an estimated 10,000 young people, are regarded as an unfortunate legacy of the austerity of the Cameron and Osborne years and will send out the wrong messages and fail to achieve their objective of saving 95m by the end of this parliament.One source said: The current crop of ministers and their civil servants hate the policy. It is fair to say that consideration is being given to the powerful arguments against it.were still on track to be introduced in some form in April, although no date has been given to lay the necessary regulations before parliament.May and her ministers  buoyant after their byelection victory in Copeland, Cumbria, where they seized the former Labour stronghold from Jeremy Corbyns party  are determined  and homeless organisations are now hopeful that the plans will be dropped, or at the very least that ministers will widen the list of planned exemptions for those judged as vulnerable, to the point where it will apply to far fewer young people.In 2015 Cameron said the policy would ensure young people in the benefits system face the same choices as young people who work and who may not be able to afford to leave home.Under the plans, which were included in the 2015 Tory manifesto, certain groups would be exempted including vulnerable young people and those unable to return to live at home with their parents. Those with children and those in work for six months prior to making a claim would also be exempt. could now be widened so that ministers can maintain they have honoured a manifesto commitment, while acting to nullify the more draconian effects.Organisations including the charities Shelter, Crisis and Centrepoint have been lobbying hard against the removal of what they describe as an essential safety net. They argue that if young people are stripped of the ability to claim housing benefit, many who cannot or do not want to live with their parents will be driven on to the streets, leaving local authorities  particularly in London  with the huge extra costs of their obligation to provide emergency accommodation.Anne Baxendale, Shelters head of policy, research and public affairs, said: Were deeply concerned by the imminent plan to bar 18- to 21-year-olds from receiving housing benefit at a time when rough sleeping is on the rise. Taking away the safety net that stands between some young people and the streets would be utterly indefensible.Put simply, not all young people have the option of living with their parents. For a small number of truly desperate young people  like those escaping an abusive household or thrown out because of their sexuality  housing benefit helps to pay for their hostel beds. Worryingly, its by no means clear how this group in exceptionally difficult circumstances will be protected when the new cut comes in.Baxendale added that the government had failed to provide enough reassurance that the removal of housing benefit wont perversely result in more homeless young people. Ultimately, if we dont want to see 18- to 21-year-olds forced to sleep rough, then its time the government abandons these cuts.Seyi Obakin, chief executive of the youth homelessness charity Centrepoint, said: Cutting this lifeline for many young people could force thousands of young people on to the streets.With no guarantee that exemptions to the policy for some vulnerable young people will actually prevent them slipping through the safety net, the governments plans could cost the taxpayer more money than it saves and force more young people into homelessness.Rather than tie itself in knots trying to make a bad policy better the government should instead focus on the root causes of the benefits bill like rising rents and the shortage of truly affordable housing.A government source confirmed that discussions were under way on how wide the exemptions should be but insisted that the policy could not be abandoned altogether as it was a manifesto commitment.Research by Heriot-Watt University found that, once the costs of vital exemptions and costs to other public services have been taken into account, the policy would save a maximum of 3.3m. It found that only an additional 140 young people would need to become homeless before the policy would end up costing more than it saved.with London, where property and rental costs have soared, accounting for 23% of the total. Housing charities say the policy will also mean young people having to stay longer in hostels rather than finding their own places to live.An exodus of fintech companies from Britain has begun, the chief executive of a leading firm has said, dashing the governments hopes of building the UK into a world leader for the industry.Every reasonably-sized company in the flourishing financial technology sector  involving e-lending, money transfers and the banking markets  is now actively looking at moving staff and investment out of the country because of the uncertainty caused by Brexit, it is claimed.Simon Black, chief executive of PPRO Group, reputedly one of the fastest-growing fintech businesses in Europe, said his firm was now starting an operation in Luxembourg because of question marks over whether UK-based companies would still be able to trade in the rest of the EU under current passport rules which are granted to all member states.I dont know of a licensed fintech company in the UK that isnt looking at options, he said. Everyone is thinking about it and anyone that is any size, that is employing more than 10 people, is active. The exodus is beginning. It will be more visible in 2018., which employs 60,000 here and has won government initiatives to help investment. The sector earned 6.6bn in 2015, and the then chancellor George Osborne said he wanted London to become the global centre for fintech.Black said the industry could not wait for the outcome of Brexit negotiations, so investment that could have been made in the UK was being diverted overseas. We have to plan for the scenarios when passporting ends, and that means we have to get a licence in another EU country.The reason we cant wait for results from the negotiation is that the full application process can take, in some countries, from six months right up to 18 months, and maybe longer. Then you need to recruit locally, you need specialists in compliance. It is a really big undertaking.Last week the French centrist presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron said he would take a tough line in Brexit negotiations if elected to lead France, raising fresh concerns that any arrangement for the City of London will be hard-fought. Macron also called for startups and businesses to come to his country.Black said: I expect passporting rights will be one of the last things that gets sorted in the negotiations. After listening to Macron, I think the EU guys are going to hold on to that bargaining chip. There are incredibly envious eyes being cast towards our financial services industry. We cant wait. Thats the point, and there are many other companies like us.Black said he looked at settling in Ireland, the Netherlands, Belgium and the Czech Republic before opting for Luxembourg, where he has already recruited a managing director. Startup costs alone, including the application for regulatory approval on the continent, would cost 1m of his 31m turnover, he estimated.He said: Most of that money would have gone into the UK. We have 20 people in London, and that has grown rapidly. Without Brexit I would have been very confident that within five years it would be 200 people in London. Now it would be more like 40 to 50, and most of the difference will go into Luxembourg.I know of a couple of companies that have shelved their international expansion. I know one big US investment bank, someone I spoke to at a conference last week, and he said their plans are much more advanced than has been picked up on by the press.Liberal Democrat Treasury spokesman Susan Kramer said: George Osborne promised to make London the centre for fintech but under this Conservative Brexit government it will only be job centres that see any dramatic growth.Ministers are in complete denial about the scale of the exodus. Independent estimates say a hard Brexit will cost the UK up to 200bn over the next 15 years.Germany has overtaken us as the fastest growing economy in Europe, and the EU is now out-performing the US. Yet Theresa May wants to surgically remove us from the European Single Market. And to think that the Conservatives used to be the party of business.Englands public health chief is urging hospitals to give every pregnant woman a carbon monoxide test to see if they smoke, as part of an NHS-wide drive to persuade patients to kick the habit.Duncan Selbie wants midwives and nurses to routinely screen mothers-to-be when their pregnancy is first booked, monitor them at all their antenatal appointments and support those who want to quit.Hospitals would also ban smoking shelters used by staff and patients, hand out nicotine gum and patches and include helping smokers to quit in patients treatment plans under Public  England (PHE)s plans. It also wants doctors and nurses to use their conversations with patients to advise them how to give up tobacco or encourage them to switch to e-cigarettes instead.One in four hospital inpatients smokes, but too many hospitals do too little to try to help them to give up. I want people who are in a hospital bed or in a consulting room to have a conversation about their smoking with a member of staff and, if they want to quit, refer them on to stop smoking services, Selbie, PHEs chief executive, told the This isnt about scaring or hectoring people. Its about making people aware that if they want to give up,  staff can help them. The evidence shows that if someone is helped to quit, they are four times more likely to succeed than if they do it on their own.We talk a lot about sugar and diet as health risks, but smoking remains the UKs biggest killer and is responsible for near half a million admissions to hospital each year. One in four beds is occupied by a smoker and seven in 10 of them want to quit. It is time to consign tobacco to history and for the NHS to help people to give up.The Royal College of Midwives (RCM) backed carbon monoxide testing for expectant mothers as long as they had the right to refuse to undergo it if they chose not to.The RCM is supportive of pregnant women being offered carbon monoxide testing at a time when it is appropriate to do so. Depending on the circumstances, it could be at the initial antenatal booking or during subsequent antenatal visits. Women should have the ability to decline testing as with any other area of antenatal screening, said Janet Fyle, the RCMs professional policy adviser.But the NHS needed to understand that some women, especially those from poorer backgrounds, smoke as a way of helping relieve the stress of preparing to have a baby, Fyle added. Having a baby and caring for a newborn along with other family members is one of the most stressful life events for some women, as some new mothers struggle to adapt to their new roleswith little or no social support, she said.We know that the incidence of smoking is higher in lower socioeconomic groups. We cannot ignore the psychological, social or economic circumstances of new mothers when developing strategies for how we communicate the risks of smoking and health care.PHE officials are frustrated that hospitals are doing too little to tackle smoking. In a strongly worded blog for the , Dr Mary Black, its head of digital strategy, accused them of displaying a kind of misguided sympathy [that] keeps the last vestiges of tobacco acceptability alive in the NHS.We falter before ill patients in pyjamas dragging their IV fluid stands out into the winter street in front of a hospital to have a fag, we pass with no comment past colleagues clustered around the emergency department exit having a communal smoke  some staff even smoke with patients at the exits of mental health units or in the last few remaining smoking shelters. Tolerating smoking on NHS premises is a form of collusion, she said.Black was especially critical of NHS personnel who light up outside their hospital. Staff who smoke in NHS uniforms are sending a very clear pro-tobacco signal. Health staff who smoke with patients are empathising in a harmful way, she said.The National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (Nice) already advises hospitals to screen pregnant women to see if they smoke. However, many do not do so, even though recent evidence shows that it helps double the number of women who quit smoking during pregnancy and that those who do go on to have heavier and healthier babies.  in pregnancy increases the risk of stillbirth, babies being small for gestational age, having trouble breathing and other problems.Selbie praised Taunton and Somerset NHS Trust for playing messages recorded by children over the loudspeaker system in its grounds to ask those who are smoking to stop. The South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust tells patients in all the letters it sends them that they should not bring tobacco, cigarettes, lighters or matches on to its premises or smoke anywhere in its grounds.Selbie also highlighted Medway NHS Foundation Trust in Kents raft of anti-smoking measures, including its use of wardens to patrol the grounds telling people to stop smoking and a policy of frontline staff checking a patients smoking status and referring them for specialist help to quit if wanted.New Home Office rules would send gay asylum seekers back to Afghanistan, where homosexuality is illegalGay Afghans can be deported to their home country, where homosexuality is illegal and wholly taboo and they must pretend to be straight, under new British government guidelines for handling asylum applications.has been denounced by human rights groups as a violation of international law, and criticised by the Home Offices own Afghanistan unit.The Home Offices approach seems to be to tell asylum seekers, Pretend youre straight, move to Kabul and best of luck, said Heather Barr, a senior researcher at . Living a life where you are forced to lie every day about a key part of your identity, and live in constant fear of being found out and harassed, prosecuted or attacked, is exactly the kind of persecution asylum laws are supposed to prevent.The document, dated last month, clearly lays out the multiple risks to LGBT Afghans from their own families, from Afghan laws, and from Taliban insurgents who consider homosexuality a crime punishable by death.It also suggests that lesbians and gay men with what may be seen as feminine traits would be at serious risk if forced to return. But the guidance goes on to argue that as the Afghan government has not recently prosecuted anyone for homosexuality, and the Taliban do not currently threaten the capital, a closeted gay Afghan could live safely in Kabul.While space for being openly gay is limited, subject to individual factors, a practising gay man who, on return to Kabul, would not attract or seek to cause public outrage, would not face a real risk of persecution, the document says. In the absence of other risk factors, it may be a safe and viable option for a gay man to relocate to Kabul, though individual factors will have to be taken into account.This apparently puts the Home Office at odds with United Nations guidelines on refugees, which specify that LGBT people should not be required to change or conceal their identity to avoid persecution, said Paul Twocock, director of campaigns, policy and research at seem to directly contradict this. They openly acknowledge that LGBT people are at risk, but also state that they can escape persecution if they are careful not to attract attention by hiding who they are, Twocock said.This is unacceptable and leaves LGBT people in danger. We strongly urge the government to change itsapproach.The Home Offices own Afghanistan unit expressed deep concerns with the guidance. An attachment to the main document bluntly states homosexuality remains wholly taboo in the country and underlines that gay Afghans have to conceal their identity.The lack of prosecutions for homosexuality since the Taliban were ousted from power in 2001 does not reflect an increased openness, the note continues, just greater respect for the rule of law.There is very little space in Afghan society, in any location, to be an individual that openly identifies as LGBT. Social attitudes and the legal position of homosexuality means that the only option for a homosexual individual, in all but the very rarest of cases, would be to conceal their sexual orientation to avoidpunishment.It also objects to references in the report to the common practice of sexually exploiting young boys. We are deeply concerned at the suggestion that the prevalence, especially in the Pashtun community, of the practice of  [pederasty] implies an acceptance of certain homosexual conduct, warns the document, signed by the head of the unit.Its occurrence reflects Afghanistans inability to deal with child sexual abuse and paedophilia. It should not be associated with consensual homosexuality and attitudes towards this.The Home Office declined to comment directly on the new guidelines, saying only that each claim is considered on its individual merits, and in accordance with the UKs international obligations. Where someone is found to be at risk of persecution or serious harm in their country of origin because of their sexuality or gender identity, refuge will be granted, a spokesperson said.