the-wall-street-journal
ATLANTAFormer Labor Secretary Tom Perez was elected chairman of the Democratic National Committee on Saturday, giving the party an establishment leader at a moment when its grass-roots wing is insurgent.Mr. Perez defeated Minnesota Rep. Keith Ellison and four other candidates in a race that had few ideological divisions yet illuminated the same rifts in the party that drove the acrimonious 2016 presidential primary between Vermont...
  After a week that showed hints of the reset sought by Capitol Hill Republicans, President Donald Trump undertook several new attacks Friday focused on two of his frequent targets: the intelligence community and the press.Mr. Trump began posting several tweets Friday morning pounding the intelligence community after reports that his chief of staff, Reince Priebus, asked officials at the Federal Bureau of Investigation to refute a...
   Energized by their disdain for the new president and how he won office, Democrats are gathering in Atlanta this weekend to pick a new leader for the Trump era. The two leading candidates to head the Democratic National Committee are former Labor Secretary Tom Perez and Rep. Keith Ellison of Minnesotathe former more friendly to the party establishment, the latter less so. Both have declared their intention to take the good fight to Donald Trump and the newly empowered Republicans. MOSUL, IraqAs they advance into Islamic States remaining urban stronghold of west Mosul, Iraqi forces are struggling to counter the terror caused by the militant groups drones.Iraqi forces have grown accustomed to enemy drones flying over the battlefield since Islamic State seized swaths of the country in 2014, and have used rifle fire, high-tech gadgets and drones of their own to counter them.Warren Buffett intensified his attacks on Wall Street money managers Saturday, saying that investors wasted more than $100 billion over the last decade on expensive advice.The billionaire devoted a large section of his widely read Berkshire Hathaway shareholder letter to arguments against stock pickers that charge high management fees and fail...
  KUALA LUMPUR, MalaysiaAn Indonesian suspect in the attack on Kim Jong Nam said she was paid $90 to help apply a baby oil-like liquid to his face, which Malaysian police say contained a lethal nerve agent that killed the half brother of North Koreas dictator. Siti Aisyah, in her first meeting with Indonesian officials after more than a week in detention in Kuala Lumpur, said Saturday she didnt know that the substancesubsequently identified by police as a banned, lethal nerve agent known as VXwas poisonous. Police...
  SEOULPlans for back-channel talks in New York between government representatives from North Korea and former U.S. officials were scuttled Friday after the State Department withdrew visa approvals for Pyongyangs top envoy on U.S. relations, according to people familiar with the matter.The talks, which were scheduled to take place on the first two days of March at a hotel near the United Nations headquarters in Manhattan, where North Korea has a mission, were contingent on the granting of a visa for Choe Son Hui, the...
  MOSUL, IraqIraqs air force on Friday carried out its first-ever strikes against Islamic State in neighboring Syria, the countrys Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi said, marking a dramatic escalation in its effort to roll back the insurgency by pounding a sanctuary across the border.The attack on foreign territory, even as Iraqi security forces at home slug it out with militants to retake western Mosul, shows how the Iraqi government...
  DALLASMack Beggs, a star wrestler at Trinity High School near Fort Worth, has a new victory under his belt. On Saturday, he became the first transgender boy to win the girls state title in Texas.Mack, who was born a female and is transitioning to a male through hormone therapy, is at the center of a controversy here over a Texas rule that requires high-school students to compete as the gender listed on their birth certificate.This year, Wall Street Journal film critic Joe Morgensterns picks for who should win an Academy Award largely line up with his predictions for who will win. See his choices (marked with red and purple icons) for key contests, and make your own.Beware of sure things, but La La Land sure looks sure, despite the inevitable backlash of naysayers who insist its nowhere near...
  