the-new-york-times
WASHINGTON  President Trump turned the power of the White House against the news media on Friday, escalating his attacks on journalists as the enemy of the people and berating members of his own In a speech to the Conservative Political Action Conference, Mr. Trump criticized as fake news organizations that publish anonymously sourced reports that reflect poorly on him. And in a series of Twitter posts, he assailed the F.B.I. as a dangerously porous agency, condemning unauthorized revelations of classified information from within its ranks and calling for an immediate hunt for leakers.Hours after the speech, as if to demonstrate Mr. Trumps determination to punish reporters whose coverage he dislikes, Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, barred journalists from The New York Times and several other news organizations from attending his daily briefing, a highly unusual breach of relations between the White House and its press corps.Mr. Trumps barrage against the news media continued well into Friday night. FAKE NEWS media knowingly doesnt tell the truth, The moves underscored the degree to which Mr. Trump and members of his inner circle are eager to use the prerogatives of the presidency to undercut those who scrutinize him, dismissing negative stories as lies and confining press access at the White House to a few chosen news organizations considered friendly. The Trump White House has also vowed new efforts to punish leakers. by CNN on Thursday night that a White House official had asked the F.B.I. to rebut a New York Times article last week detailing contacts between Mr. Trumps associates and Russian intelligence officials. The report asserted that a senior White House official had called top leaders at the F.B.I. to request that they contact reporters to dispute the Timess account.The fake news doesnt tell the truth, Mr. Trump said to the delight of the conservatives packed into the main ballroom at the Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center just south of Washington. It doesnt represent the people, it doesnt and never will represent the people, and were going to do something about it.In the West Wing less than three hours later, the consequences were becoming clear. Mr. Spicer told a handpicked group of reporters in a briefing in his spacious office that the White House would relentlessly counter coverage it considered inaccurate.Were going to aggressively push back, he said, according to a recording of the session provided by a reporter who was allowed to attend. Were just not going to sit back and let, you know, false narratives, false stories, inaccurate facts get out there.Reporters from The Times, BuzzFeed News, CNN, The Los Angeles Times, Politico, the BBC and The Huffington Post were among those shut out of the briefing. Aides to Mr. Spicer admitted only reporters from a group of news organizations that, the White House said, had been previously confirmed.Those organizations included Breitbart News, the One America News Network and The Washington Times, all with conservative leanings. Journalists from ABC, CBS, The Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg and Fox News also attended.Reporters from The Associated Press and Time magazine, who were set to be allowed in, chose not to attend the briefing in protest of the White Houses actions. The Washington Post did not send a reporter to the session.A tabloid darling back when he was running a close-knit real estate and branding business in New York, President Trump has found himself subsumed and increasingly infuriated by a national media that regularly confronts him with leaks and criticisms.Nothing like this has ever happened at the White House in our long history of covering multiple administrations of different parties, Dean Baquet, the executive editor of The Times, said in a statement. We strongly protest the exclusion of The New York Times and the other news organizations. Free media access to a transparent government is obviously of crucial national interest.Marty Baron, the Posts editor, called Mr. Spicers decision to exclude some news organizations from a scheduled briefing appalling.This is an undemocratic path that the administration is traveling, Mr. Baron said. There is nothing to be gained from the White House restricting the publics access to information.We invited the pool, so everyone was represented, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the deputy White House press secretary, said in an email Friday afternoon, referring to the small group of reporters on hand at the White House each day to follow the president and send reports to the broader press corps. We decided to add a couple of additional people beyond the pool. Nothing more than that.The White House Correspondents Association, which represents the press corps, also protested the decision. But Jeff Mason, the organizations president, pointed out that the White House had provided near-daily briefings and accepted questions from a variety of news outlets since Mr. Trump took office.Were not happy with how things went today, Mr. Mason said in an interview. But its important to keep in mind the context of how things have gone up until now. He added: I dont think that people should rush to judgment to suggest that this is the start of a big crackdown on media access.Still, the Committee to Protect Journalists, which typically advocates press rights in countries with despotic regimes, issued an alarmed statement on Friday about Mr. Trumps escalating language.It is not the job of political leaders to determine how journalists should conduct their work, and sets a terrible example for the rest of the world, said the groups executive director, Joel Simon. The U.S. should be promoting press freedom and access to information.Mr. Trump, in his attack on the news media at the conservative gathering, complained at length about the use of anonymous sources in news stories, charging that some reporters were fabricating unnamed sources to level unfair charges against him.They shouldnt be allowed to use sources unless they use somebodys name, Mr. Trump said. Let their name be put out there.At another point, he said, A few days ago, I called the fake news the enemy of the people because they have no sources  they just make it up. He added that his Those comments came shortly after his own aides had held a briefing for the White House press pool on the condition of anonymity to deny CNNs story suggesting there had been improper contact between the White House and the F.B.I. regarding the Times article on Russian contacts.Later, in the briefing from which the Times was excluded, Mr. Spicer said that it was top F.B.I. officials  first Andrew G. McCabe, the deputy director, and later James B. Comey, the director  who approached Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, the day after the article appeared to say that it was false.Mr. Priebus then asked the two F.B.I. officials what they could do to rebut it publicly. They apologized and said they were unable to issue a statement or otherwise comment on the matter, Mr. Spicer said.They came to us and said the story is not true. We said, Great, could you tell people that? Mr. Spicer said, describing the discussions between Mr. Priebus and F.B.I. officials.The F.B.I. on Friday declined to provide its account of those conversations. On Thursday night an F.B.I. official said that the White House had asked last week for the bureaus help disputing the article, and that senior F.B.I. officials had rejected the request, citing the investigation into Russian efforts to affect the election.The article reported that current and former American officials said that phone records and intercepted calls showed that members of Mr. s 2016 presidential campaign and other Trump associates had repeated contacts with senior Russian intelligence officials in the year before the election. The intercepts alarmed American intelligence and law enforcement agencies, in part because of the amount of contact that was occurring while Mr. Trump was Last week the White House declined to comment on the Times article and referred reporters back to Mr. Spicers previous assertions that Mr. Trumps campaign had no contact with the Russian government.Mr. Spicers small-group Friday session, known as a gaggle, was scheduled as an off-camera event, less formal than his usual briefings that are carried live on cable news. But past administrations have not selected outlets that can attend such sessions.Representatives of the barred news organizations made clear that they believed the White Houses actions were punitive.Apparently this is how they retaliate when you report facts they dont like, CNN said in a statement.Tensions always emerge between an administration and the reporters who cover it, and it is not unusual for a White House to single out groups of journalists for special briefings outside of the daily on-camera question-and-answer session. The Obama White House was harshly criticized by members of the press corps after it tried to exclude Fox News from interviews with top administration officials.But press relations in the Trump White House have taken on a tinderbox dynamic, with journalists and press aides highly suspicious of each others motives.The grass is dry on both sides, said Ari Fleischer, who was press secretary to George W. Bush, so it only takes a very small match to light it on fire.OLATHE, Kan.  The Jameson guys, as some on the staff at Austins Bar and Grill knew the pair, were on the patio on Wednesday evening. It was hardly unusual: Srinivas Kuchibhotla and Alok Madasani, two immigrants from Adam W. Purinton was also there, tossing ethnic slurs at the two men and suggesting they did not belong in the United States, other customers said. Patrons complained, and Mr. Purinton was thrown out.But a short time later, he came back in a rage and fired on the two men, the authorities said. Mr. Kuchibhotla was killed, and Mr. Madasani was wounded, along with a 24-year-old man who had tried to apprehend the gunman, who fled.Mr. Purinton, 51, was extradited to Kansas from Missouri on Friday, and he is charged with premeditated first-degree murder and two counts of attempted premeditated first-degree murder.The attack, which the federal and local authorities are investigating as a possible hate crime, reverberated far beyond both states. It raised new alarms about a climate of hostility toward foreigners in the United States, where President Trump has made clamping down on immigration a central plank of his America first agenda. The White House strongly rejected the notion that there might be any connection between the shooting and the new administrations sharp language about immigration.People are devastated, said Somil Chandwani, a friend of the two victims who lives in Overland Park, Kan. I wouldnt say they are angry. They have a sense of insecurity at the moment. People are trying to find answers.A charging document released on Friday gave no details about the motive for the shooting. Law enforcement officials in Kansas, citing the continuing investigation and judicial ethics standards, said little about the episode.Still, the F.B.I.s role in the inquiry suggested that officials had found some evidence that could eventually lead to civil rights charges in connection with the shooting, which occurred around 7:15 p.m. Wednesday.He snapped, and this is not his typical self, the suspects mother, Marsha Purinton, said before declining further comment.In a brief phone interview on Friday night, Mr. Madasani described the remarks made Wednesday by the man sitting near him and Mr. Kuchibhotla at the restaurant. He asked us what visa are we currently on and whether we are staying here illegally, Mr. Madasani said. (Both men were educated in the United States and were working here legally.)We didnt react, Mr. Madasani said. People do stupid things all the time. This guy took it to the next level.Mr. Madasani said he went in to get a manager, and by the time he returned to the patio, the man was being escorted out.After Mr. Purinton was thrown out, Jeremy Luby, 41, a software developer, said he offered to pick up the tab for the two men, who thanked him during a brief conversation about work and cultural differences.It was wrong what happened to them, Mr. Luby said. I thought it was a nice gesture to say, Im sorry someone was being rude to you like that.After the shooting began, another patron, Ian Grillot, 24, said he tried to count the shots while he hid under a table. Thinking the gunman had run out of ammunition, Mr. Grillot said, he confronted him, only to be shot in the hand and the chest.It wasnt right, and I didnt want the gentleman to potentially go after somebody else, Mr. Grillot said in a video released by the hospital where he received treatment. He did it once. What would stop him from doing it again?The shots echoed around the area, and Chris Lacross soon emerged from a store a few doors down to an unimaginable scene: an emergency medical technician performing CPR on a man lying in the doorway of the bars front patio, where tables and chairs had been flipped over, and someone was shouting that they needed towels.Another man took off his shirt and applied pressure to the wound of another victim, who was writhing in pain, said Mr. Lacross, who allowed some people to use a store restroom to wash away spattered blood.Within minutes, an emergency dispatcher, in a transmission archived by the Broadcastify website, told officers, Were being advised the suspects name is Adam, and hes a white male wearing a white shirt with military medals.Capt. Sonny Lynch, the deputy chief of police in Clinton, Mo., where Mr. Purinton was arrested at an Applebees restaurant, said a bartender there called the police after a customer confessed to his involvement in a shooting hours earlier.He was talking to her  Im on the run; Im hiding out from the law  so she stuck around, Captain Lynch said of the bartender. She just hung out there talking to the guy until he said, I shot those guys, and thats why Im hiding out from the police.Mr. Purinton was arrested without incident, Captain Lynch said, and invoked his constitutional rights. It was not clear whether he had a lawyer.Mr. Purinton spent time in the Navy and, according to a website where veterans can list their military records, was deployed aboard the Long Beach, a missile cruiser, from 1988 to 1990. He later worked for the Federal Aviation Administration but left the agency in 2000, a spokeswoman said.In Johnson County, Kan., at least, he has had few run-ins with law enforcement. Court records showed a limited history: a speeding ticket in 2008, as well as a 1999 drunken-driving charge that was dismissed.A neighbor, Lisa Puckett, said that Mr. Purinton was frequently intoxicated but that news of a shooting was stunning.We always wondered if he might hurt himself, but we didnt think he would hurt someone else, she said.The dead man, Mr. Kuchibhotla, worked for Garmin, a GPS navigation and communications device company. One of the wounded men, Mr. Madasani, like Mr. Kuchibhotla in his early 30s, also worked for Garmin, according to the Indian government. On Friday, counselors were at the companys campus in Olathe, a hub of South Asian immigrants where 84 languages are spoken in the local school district.Speaking to reporters on Friday at the Garmin headquarters, Mr. Kuchibhotlas widow, Sunayana Dumala, said she had long been worried by shootings she read about in the newspaper.I, especially, I was always concerned, are we doing the right thing of staying in the United States of America? she said. But he always assured me that only good things happen to good people.India has condemned the killing of an Indian man and the wounding of another at a bar in Kansas on Wednesday, and hailed Ian Grillot, who pursued the gunman, as a hero.Now, Ms. Dumala said, she needed an answer from the government about what theyre going to do to stop this hate crime.Mr. Madasanis father, Jagan Mohan Reddy, a government engineer in Hyderabad, India, said his family was in shock. He said he did not know whether he would ask Mr. Madasani, who received a graduate degree from the University of Missouri-Kansas City, and another son living in the United States to leave the country.We have to think it over, he said. My sons are not new to America. They have been staying there for the last 10 to 12 years. This is a new situation, and they are the best judges.Mr. Madasani, who has been released from the hospital, said he was recovering physically and mentally. Im definitely doing much better, but its not over yet, he said.On Friday, Mr. Kuchibhotlas killing and the wounding of Mr. Madasani led to a chorus of fury in India, where the attack dominated the news media to such an extent that the top American diplomat in the country was compelled to issue a statement condemning what she described as a tragic and senseless act.In Washington, the White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, rejected any link between Mr. Trumps policy agenda and the shooting, which many Indians believed might have been inspired by the presidents harsh tone on immigration.The Justice Department is under pressure to bring federal charges in the case. Moussa Elbayoumy, the board chairman for the Kansas chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, said the government should consider filing hate crime charges in order to send a strong message that violence targeting religious or ethnic minorities will not be tolerated.On Friday night, a diverse crowd of more than 400 gathered to grieve at First Baptist Church down the street from the bar. They offered their prayers to the Kuchibhotlas and the Madasanis, characterized the shooting as an anomaly in an otherwise peaceful, tolerant suburb and vowed they would not let that change.Mr. Purinton was scheduled to appear in court on Monday. Austins, meanwhile, planned to reopen on Saturday.John Eligon reported from Olathe, Alan Blinder from New York and Nida Najar from New Delhi. Reporting was contributed by Traci Angel and Austin Huguelet from Olathe, Sewell Chan from London, Hari Kumar from New Delhi, Dave Philipps from Colorado Springs and Daniel Victor from New York. Susan Beachy, Doris Burke and Alain Delaqurire contributed research. has told his staff that Muslims who commit terrorist acts are perverting their religion, rejecting a key ideological view of other senior Trump advisers and signaling a potentially more moderate approach to the Islamic world. on Thursday, in his first all hands staff meeting, that the label radical Islamic terrorism was not helpful because terrorists are un-Islamic, according to people who were in the meeting.That is a repudiation of the language regularly used by both the president and General McMasters predecessor, Michael T. Flynn,  after admitting that he had misled Vice President Mike Pence and other officials about a phone call with a Russian diplomat.It is also a sign that General McMaster, a veteran of the Iraq war known for his sense of history and independent streak, might move the council away from the ideologically charged views of Mr. Flynn, who was also a three-star Army general before retiring.Wearing his Army uniform, General McMaster spoke to a group that has been rattled and deeply demoralized after weeks of upheaval, following a haphazard transition from the Obama administration and amid the questions about links to Russia, which swiftly engulfed Mr. Flynn.General McMaster, several officials said, has been vocal about his views on dealing with Islamic militancy, including with Mr. Trump, who on Monday described him as a man of tremendous talent, tremendous experience. General McMaster got the job after Mr. Trumps first choice, Within a day of his appointment on Monday, General McMaster was popping into offices to introduce himself to the councils professional staff members. The staff members, many of them holdovers from the Obama administration, felt viewed with suspicion by Mr. Trumps team and shut out of the policy-making process, according to current and former officials.In his language, General McMaster is closer to the positions of former Presidents Barack Obama and George W. Bush. Both took pains to separate acts of terrorism from Islamic teaching, in part because they argued that the United States needed the help of Muslim allies to hunt down terrorists.This is very much a repudiation of his new bosss lexicon and worldview, said William McCants, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and the author of The ISIS Apocalypse.McMaster, like Obama, is someone who was in positions of leadership and thought the United States should not play into the jihadist propaganda that this is a religious war, Mr. McCants said.There is a deep hunger for McMasters view in the interagency, he added, referring to the process by which the State Department, Pentagon and other agencies funnel recommendations through the National Security Council. The fact that he has made himself the champion of this view makes people realize they have an advocate to express dissenting opinions.But Mr. McCants and others cautioned that General McMasters views would not necessarily be the final word in a White House where Mr. Trump and several of his top advisers view Islam in deeply xenophobic terms. Some aides, including the presidents chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, have warned of a looming existential clash between Islam and the Judeo-Christian world.Mr. Bannon and Stephen Miller, another senior adviser with anti-Islamic views, have close ties to Mr. Trump and walk-in privileges in the Oval Office. General McMaster, 54, has neither.Known for challenging his superiors, General McMaster was nearly passed over for the rank of brigadier general in 2007, until Gen. David H. Petraeus, who used his counterinsurgency strategy in Iraq, and Robert M. Gates, then the defense secretary, rallied support for him.The schisms within the administration could be aired publicly if the Senate Armed Services Committee exercises a right to hold a confirmation hearing for General McMaster. Although the post of national security adviser does not require Senate confirmation, senators must approve his retention of his three-star rank in a new position.Senator John McCain, the committees chairman and a strong supporter of General McMaster, has not said whether he wants to hold a hearing.To outside observers, the administrations approach to the world appears increasingly schizophrenic. Mr. Pence, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and other senior cabinet officers have reaffirmed American support for alliances with NATO and in East Asia. Mr. Bannon and other White House officials continue to suggest there will be radical shifts in American policy. These mixed messages extend beyond the Muslim world. This week, Mr. Pence traveled to Brussels to declare  on Mr. Trumps behalf, he said  the strong commitment of the United States to the continued cooperation and partnership with the European Union.But on Thursday, the German ambassador to the United States, Peter Wittig, said his government remains concerned that the White House views the European Union as an ailing, inefficient economic club, rather than a political project that has kept Europe at peace., Mr. Wittig met Mr. Bannon, who told him the White House viewed the European Union as a flawed construct and preferred to negotiate with Germany and other European countries one-on-one. Mr. Wittig declined to discuss the meeting, while Mr. Bannon did not respond to a request for comment.But Mr. Wittig said to reporters, We will certainly fight for a coherent and resilient European Union.Images like this one might look silly, but they are rich with insights into the countrys military and politics. By using high-tech forensics and traditional detective work, analysts and intelligence agencies can use photos to track North Koreas internal politics and expanding weapons programs with stunning granularity.Several experts walked us through this photo of Kim Jong-un, North Koreas leader, unveiling what he claimed was a new nuclear device. But the image, from March 2016, may show more than Mr. Kim intended: the possible range of the missile behind him, his relationship with the military, even his precise location.North Korea calls this its first miniaturized nuclear warhead, small enough to fit on a missile. Analysts call it the disco ball.Jeffrey Lewis, an analyst at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies, used the photo to estimate the devices size, from which he deduced its weight  a few hundred kilograms  and its destructive yield, about 20 kilotons, roughly equivalent to the atomic bombs that the United States dropped on Japan.But more important than yield was its small size  about 60 centimeters in diameter  which appears to match North Koreas claim that it can fit on their long-range missiles, a major leap forward for the countrys nuclear prowess.. It could be a routine component to trigger detonation or it could be used to inject gas, making the device more efficient. This would allow North Korea to build more warheads out of limited plutonium supplies, multiplying the size of its arsenal.. Some suspect its a safety feature used to enter the nuclear pit just before detonation; others say it could be used to arm the warhead. Analysts hope new images will emerge that will help them solve these riddles.Scholars of North Korean state media recognize Mr. Kims jacket from official portrayals of his grandfather, Kim Il-sung, the nations founding leader. The elder Kim is heavily celebrated in state media and closely associated with the Korean War. Mr. Kim, by borrowing his coat, is sending a message that North Korea is again on a war footing.Such details help scholars to understand how Mr. Kim is constructing his legitimacy. By mimicking his grandfather, he is implicitly breaking with his father, Kim Jong-il, who tended to rule through institutions like the military and the Communist Party. Instead, Mr. Kim is asserting himself as the center of all authority, as his grandfather did. This pose can help experts better understand the governments internal dynamics and how it might behave.Notice whats absent: military uniforms at an event to unveil a new military weapon. In a country where propaganda sets reality, and the political hierarchy can be life or death, such choices matter. and two key military leaders: the head of the nuclear program and the head of missile forces, both in civilian clothing.That sends a clear message: Mr. Kim is asserting that he runs the nuclear weapons program personally, cutting out the usual chain of command. This is not rule by the military anymore. This is rule by one man, said Joshua Pollack, who edits the Nonproliferation Review.The body language is also significant: Mr. Kim is giving guidance as even top military officials dutifully take notes, a show of submission to his personal authority over this specific warhead.Even a glimpse of the intercontinental missile in the background reveals important information. David Schmerler, also with the Center for Nonproliferation Studies, noticed the white lettering, which is Korean for support. Missile airframes are fragile and so have to be rested where the frame is strongest  between the internal tanks. the missiles interior and deduce information like the type of fuel used. Altogether, this reveals that the missile is designed for a range of thousands of miles  enough to reach Washington, D.C., if the technology is perfected.The potential range of North Koreas current weapons, particularly the KN-14 and KN-08 missiles, would put most of the world in reach of its nuclear warheads.The potential range of North Koreas current weapons, particularly the KN-14 and KN-08 missiles, would put most of the world in reach of its nuclear warheads.The potential range of North Koreas current weapons, particularly the KN-14 and KN-08 missiles, would put most of the world in reach of its nuclear warheads.Melissa Hanham, also of the Center for Nonproliferation Studies, is pairing these findings with a series of  North Korea has released of rocket engine tests, some for the KN-08. Analysis of the flame from the engine, particularly its color, confirm its designed to be able to reach the East Coast of the United States one day.They narrowed their search, in part, by examining photos where Mr. Kim wore the same outfit, reasoning that his proclivity for wearing the same clothing over a stretch of time would help them spot patterns. (Mr. Pollack also said they could roughly date an undated photo by Mr. Kims weight, which tends to fluctuate.)That led them to an earlier photo of the missile facility, whose tiny architectural details and a banner matched those in the disco ball photo. Propaganda officials had not bothered to hide its location: the Chamjin missile factory just outside Pyongyang.The missile facility is secluded within a small ring of mountainous terrain, just 10 miles from North Koreas capitol city of Pyongyang. Mr. Lewis has been monitoring the facility ever since. He watches how and when it is used, looking for bursts in traffic or new construction. By tracking which facilities are expanded and which are neglected, he can infer the same of whichever program a facility houses.Satellite photos show this facility getting a recent upgrade  which Mr. Lewis was able to see up close by finding a matching propaganda photo. Such glimpses give him a feel for key weapons centers. He thinks he may even have spotted Mr. Kims car.These small observations add up, demonstrating that, as Mr. Pollack put it of North Koreas nuclear development, this is a deadly serious program.Ms. Hanham believes some details may have been deliberately revealed to demonstrate the countrys growing capabilities. Whereas most such images are doctored, if only to improve Mr. Kims appearance, she noticed that this was conspicuously unretouched  perhaps a message to the foreign intelligence agencies who conduct such analyses.This is being offered as evidence. This is supposed to be proof, she said. Whereas analysts had long doubted the countrys grandiose claims, she added, 2016 was about showing us all the capabilities that we had mocked. leaders will gather in two cities this weekend to plot strategy and select a new national chairman with the daunting task of rebuilding the partys depleted organization. But senior Democratic officials concede that the blueprint has already been chosen for them  by an incensed army of liberals demanding no less than total war against President Trump., Democrats were divided over how to handle Mr. Trump, with one camp favoring all-out confrontation and another backing a seemingly less risky approach of coaxing him to the center with offers of compromise.Now, spurred by explosive protests and a torrent of angry phone calls and emails from constituents  and outraged themselves by Mr. Trumps swift moves to enact a hard-line agenda  Democrats have all but cast aside any notion of conciliation with the White House. Instead, they are mimicking the Republican approach of the last eight years  the party of no  and wagering that brash obstruction will pay similar dividends., vice chairman of the Democratic Governors Association, said there had been a tornado of support for wall-to-wall resistance to Mr. Trump. Mr. Inslee, who backed a lawsuit against the presidents executive order banning refugee admissions and travel from seven majority-Muslim countries, said Democrats intended to send a stern message to Mr. Trump during a conference of governors in the nations capital.My belief is, we have to resist every way and everywhere, every time we can, when Mr. Trump offends core American values, Mr. Inslee said. By undermining Mr. Trump across the board, he said, Democrats hope to split Republicans away from a president of their own party.Ultimately, wed like to have a few Republicans stand up to rein him in, Mr. Inslee said. The more air goes out of his balloon, the earlier and likelier that is to happen.Yet Democrats acknowledge there is a wide gulf between the partys desire to fight Mr. Trump and its power to thwart him, quietly worrying that the expectations of the partys activist base may outpace what Democratic lawmakers can achieve.They want us to impeach him immediately, said Representative John Yarmuth, Democrat of Kentucky. And of course we cant do that by ourselves.Some in the party also fret that a posture of unremitting hostility to the president could imperil lawmakers in red states that Mr. Trump won last year, or compromise efforts for Democrats to present themselves to moderate voters as an inoffensive alternative to the polarizing president.Rarely have Democrats been so weakened. Republicans control the White House, both chambers of Congress and 33 governorships, and they are preparing to install a fifth conservative, Further, because of changes to Senate rules that were enacted under Democratic control, the party has been unable to block Mr. Trumps cabinet nominees from being confirmed by a simple majority vote.Democrats, in other words, have few instruments at the moment to wound Mr. Trumps administration in the manner their core voters are demanding.Still, a mood of stiff opposition has taken hold on Capitol Hill, with Democrats besieged by constituents enraged by Mr. Trumps actions  and lawmakers sharing their alarm.We have to fight like hell to stop him and hopefully save our country, said Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, echoing the near-apocalyptic stakes liberal voters are giving voice to at crowded town hall meetings.Senator Thomas R. Carper of Delaware, a middle-of-the-road Democrat up for re-election in 2018, cautioned that loathing Mr. Trump, on its own, was not a governing strategy. He said he still hoped for compromise with Republicans on infrastructure funding and perhaps on a plan to improve or repair the Affordable Care Act.There is this vitriol and dislike for our new president, Mr. Carper said. The challenge for us is to harness it in a productive way and a constructive way, and I think we will.But Mr. Carper said the deliberations over Mr. Trumps cabinet appointments had woken up Democrats, recalling that he had heard from thousands of voters about At times, Democratic frustration with Mr. Trump has already flared well beyond the normal range of opposition discourse: In Virginia, Tom Perriello, a former congressman seeking his partys nomination for governor, apologized after calling Mr. Trumps election a political and constitutional Sept. 11. And in New Jersey, Phil Murphy, a former Goldman Sachs banker and ambassador to Germany, drew criticism in his campaign for governor after likening the current political moment in America to the rise of Adolf Hitler.Among rank-and-file Democrats, however, it is far from clear that the rhetoric of heated opposition is unwelcome.  by the Pew Research Center found that nearly three-quarters of Democrats said they were concerned the party would not do enough to oppose Mr. Trump; only 20 percent were concerned Democrats would go too far in opposition.A handful of liberal groups have already sprung up threatening to wage primary challenges against incumbent Democrats whom they see as insufficiently militant against Mr. Trump, raising the prospect of the same internecine wars that plagued Republicans during President Barack Obamas administration., which concludes with a vote in Atlanta on Saturday, the restive mood of liberal activists has buoyed a pair of insurgents, Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota and Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., against the perceived front-runner, Thomas E. Perez.Mr. Perez, who was Mr. Obamas labor secretary, is still viewed as a favorite in the race, and he has been backed by former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. But he has struggled to dispel the impression that he is an anointed favorite of Washington power brokers.And Mr. Ellison and Mr. Buttigieg have continued to collect high-profile endorsements: Mr. Ellison won the support of Representative John Lewis of Georgia, the civil rights leader, on Tuesday, and Mr. Buttigieg was endorsed Wednesday by Howard Dean, the former party chairman who remains admired on the left.In a sign of how little heed Democrats are paying to traditional forces, Mr. Ellison remains viable despite being bluntly attacked as an anti-Semite by Haim Saban, one of the most prolific donors to the party and its candidates.Christine C. Quinn, a vice chairwoman of the New York State Democratic Committee, who was a prominent surrogate for Hillary Clinton last year, said she backed Mr. Ellison, who was the first Muslim elected to Congress, in part because of the forcefulness of his criticism of the White House.This is not a normal Republican president, and these are not normal times, said Ms. Quinn, a former speaker of the New York City Council. This isnt a time for polite parties anymore. This is a time to take a different posture of true aggressiveness.Martin OMalley, a former Maryland governor who has endorsed Mr. Buttigieg, said impatient Democrats might challenge even members of their own party in their enthusiasm to take on Mr. Trump. Mr. OMalley said the party base plainly wanted leaders who would be willing to fight the fight and where necessary He said he expected younger, fired-up liberals to run against some Democratic incumbents as well as Republicans. Thats a good thing, and its overdue, he said.So far, the most prominent leaders of the Democratic Partys activist wing, including Senators Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Bernie Sanders of Vermont, have not encouraged challenges to sitting Democratic lawmakers who have accommodated Mr. Trump. Mr. Merkley, an ally of Mr. Sanders, suggested liberals seeking scalps would get no help from progressive senators if they try to unseat Democratic senators from conservative Missouri, Montana, North Dakota and West Virginia, calling those lawmakers perfectly suited to those states.Two mayors in Democratic cities, however, have gotten a taste of what awaits those who do not bow completely to the demands of the anti-Trump forces: When Carolyn Goodman of Las Vegas, a Democrat turned independent, and Levar Stoney of Richmond, Va., a Democrat, resisted deeming their municipalities sanctuary cities, each was met with anger from supporters of expanding protection against deportation for undocumented immigrants.Nowhere is it more clear, however, that the protesters are leading the politicians than on Capitol Hill., an issue Democrats aim to run on in 2018. But Mr. Price was vastly overshadowed by the nomination of Ms. DeVos, who galvanized the new activists like no other cabinet pick.Part of what I think the Bernie campaign taught us, even the Trump campaign taught us, and now the resistance is teaching us, is just ditch the consultants and consult with your conscience and constituents first, said Senator Brian Schatz of Hawaii, warning his fellow Democrats that its a fools errand to try to plan this out like its a traditional political operation.Mr. Merkley boasted that were doing things in the Senate that are less conventional, efforts he said were aimed at conveying to anti-Trump voters that hey, were here and were fighting.Those efforts have included tactics like walking out on nomination hearings and opposing even less controversial cabinet appointments, such as that of Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, the wife of the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell.The fear factor is real, said Adam Jentleson, a former Senate Democratic aide. Images of angry constituents jeering Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a reliable liberal from Rhode Island, at a town hall-style meeting in late January for supporting the selection of It was eye-opening, Mr. Jentleson said, because it made clear that the base is not going to let them off the hook.The confirmation of Betsy DeVos as secretary of education was a signal moment for the school choice movement. For the first time, the nations highest education official is someone fully committed to making school vouchers and other market-oriented policies the centerpiece of education reform.But even as school choice is poised to go national, a wave of new research has emerged suggesting that private school vouchers may harm students who receive them. The results are startling  the worst in the history of the field, researchers say. in Economics. Because a stable and democratic society is impossible without widespread acceptance of some common set of values and without a minimum degree of literacy and knowledge on the part of most citizens, Mr. Friedman wrote, the government should pay for all children to go to school.all the schools. Instead, it could give parents vouchers to pay for approved educational services provided by private schools, with the governments role limited to ensuring that the schools met certain minimum standards.The voucher idea sat dormant for years before taking root in a few places, most notably Milwaukee. Yet even as many of Mr. Friedmans other ideas became Republican Party orthodoxy, most national G.O.P. leaders committed themselves to a different theory of educational improvement: standards, testing and accountability. That movement reached an apex when the  of 2001 brought a new focus on tests and standards to nearly every public school nationwide. The law left voucher supporters with crumbs: a small demonstration project in Washington, D.C.But broad political support for No Child Left Behind proved short-lived. Teachers unions opposed the reforms from the left, while libertarians and states-rights conservatives denounced it from the right. When Republicans took control of more governors mansions and state legislatures in the 2000s, they expanded vouchers to an unprecedented degree. Three of the largest programs sprang up in Indiana, Louisiana and Ohio, which collectively enroll more than a third of the 178,000 voucher students nationwide.Most of the new programs heeded Mr. Friedmans original call for the government to enforce minimum standards by requiring private schools that accept vouchers to administer standardized state tests. Researchers have used this data to compare voucher students with similar children who took the same tests in public school. Many of the results were released over the last 18 months, while Donald J. Trump was advocating school choice on the campaign trail.The first results came in late 2015. Researchers examined an Indiana voucher program that had quickly grown to serve tens of thousands of students under Mike Pence, then the states governor. In mathematics, they found, voucher students who transfer to private schools experienced significant losses in achievement. They also saw no improvement in reading. of Louisianas voucher program. Students in the program were predominantly black and from low-income families, and they came from public schools that had received poor ratings from the state department of education, based on test scores. For private schools receiving more applicants than they could enroll, the law required that they admit students via lottery, which allowed the researchers to compare lottery winners with those who stayed in public school.They found large negative results in both reading and math. Public elementary school students who started at the 50th percentile in math and then used a voucher to transfer to a private school dropped to the 26th percentile in a single year. Results were somewhat better in the second year, but were still well below the starting point.This is very unusual. When people try to improve education, sometimes they succeed and sometimes they fail. The successes usually register as modest improvements, while the failures generally have no effect at all. Its rare to see efforts to improve test scores having the opposite result. Martin West, a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, calls the negative effects in Louisiana as large as any Ive seen in the literature  not just compared with other voucher studies, but in the history of American education research.Theres always the chance that a single study, no matter how well designed, is an outlier. Studies of older voucher programs in Milwaukee and elsewhere have generally produced mixed results, sometimes finding modest improvements in test scores, but only for some subjects and student groups. Until about a year ago, however, few if any studies had shown vouchers causing test scores to decline drastically. was released by the Thomas B. Fordham Institute, a conservative think tank and proponent of school choice. The study, which was financed by the pro-voucher Walton Family Foundation, focused on a large voucher program in Ohio. Students who use vouchers to attend private schools have fared worse academically compared to their closely matched peers attending public schools, the researchers found. Once again, results were worse in math.Three consecutive reports, each studying one of the largest new state voucher programs, found that vouchers hurt student learning. Researchers and advocates began a spirited debate about what, exactly, was going on. that the performance gap between private and public school students had narrowed significantly over time. He argued that the standards, testing and accountability movement, for all its political shortcomings, was effective. The assumed superiority of private schools may no longer hold. that many private schools in Louisiana chose not to accept voucher students, and those that did had recently experienced declining enrollment. Perhaps the participating schools were unusually bad and eager for revenue. But this is another way of saying that exposing young children to the vagaries of private-sector competition is inherently risky. The free market often does a terrible job of providing basic services to the poor  see, for instance, the lack of grocery stores and banks in many low-income neighborhoods. This may also hold for education.Others have argued that standardized test scores are the wrong measure of school success. Its true that voucher programs in Washington and some others elsewhere, which produced no improvements in test scores, increased the likelihood of students advancement and graduation from high school. One study of a privately financed voucher program in New York found positive results for college attendance among African-Americans. has also linked higher test scores to a host of positive outcomes later in life. And voucher advocates often cite poor test scores in public schools to justify creating private school vouchers in the first place. on test scores. But while vouchers and charters are often grouped under the umbrella of school choice, the best charters tend to be nonprofit public schools, open to all and accountable to public authorities. The less private that school choice programs are, the better they seem to work.The new evidence on vouchers does not seem to have deterred the Trump administration, which has proposed a new $20 billion voucher program. Secretary DeVoss enthusiasm for vouchers, which have been the primary focus of her philanthropic spending and advocacy, appears to be undiminished. has kept a relatively low profile since leaving office last month, and he largely avoided the spotlight on Friday night  at least as much as a former president can when he is attending a Broadway show.Shortly after the lights went down at the American Airlines Theater on West 42nd Street, there was a blur, and the brief shining of a flashlight. Three people quickly took their seats several rows back from the stage: Mr. Obama; his eldest daughter, Malia; and Valerie Jarrett, who was a senior adviser to the president.A woman sitting nearby let out a small yelp, but most of the audience at the revival of Arthur Millers The Price did not realize they were watching a Broadway show with someone who was, until recently, the most powerful person in the world. The play, starring Mark Ruffalo, Danny DeVito, Jessica Hecht and Tony Shalhoub, centers on two estranged brothers and their quest to reconnect.Well, I actually didnt know he was sitting in the row, said Laralyn Mowers, 37, who lives in Astoria, Queens. She was sitting five seats to the right of Mr. Obama and did not realize he was there until a friend told her at intermission. I had a really bad day and it all just changed.Ms. Mowers said she was actually irritated when the trio first came in. Who is so rude to come in after the show starts with the flashlights and everything? she said.Mr. Obama wore glasses during the show. At one point during the second act, he and his daughter sat in identical poses: right hands pressed to their chins while intently observing the drama before them. Just before intermission, again in darkness, Mr. Obama, his daughter and Ms. Jarrett were whisked backstage to greet the cast and to take pictures with the crew. Once more, most of the crowd was oblivious to his presence.After the play ended, the Obamas and Ms. Jarrett joined the crowd in a standing ovation for the cast, the most visible they had been all night. Minutes later, they were gone. The audience members who managed to see the former president were heard expressing surprise that he had been there.. After leaving office, Mr. Obama and Michelle Obama went to the British Virgin Islands at the invitation of Richard Branson, the founder of the Virgin Group. Photos of a smiling Mr. Obama kitesurfing and wearing his baseball cap backward set off a flurry of jokes on the internet and on late night comedy shows. A common thread: Was he ever coming back? Mrs. Obama was spotted  leaving a SoulCycle class in Washington this week. And on Thursday night, the former president was spotted leaving a restaurant with Malia in New York Citys Little Italy.The Obamas have shown a fondness for Broadway. In 2009, Mr. Obama whisked Mrs. Obama away from Washington for a Saturday dinner and a theater date, taking in  Five years later, the Obamas attended a performance of A Raisin in the Sun, starring Denzel Washington. to perform and to conduct a workshop with high school students. In November, Mr. Obama appeared at a fund-raiser for Democrats that featured a special performance of the hit musical.In an episode that garnered much attention, Mike Pence, then the vice president-elect, was treated by a cast member to a brief statement about inclusion after seeing  in November. Mr. Trump, who helped finance a Broadway play in his 20s, and has said he is a fan of the composer Andrew Lloyd Webber, was not pleased.During Fridays performance of The Price, a line from Mr. DeVitos character, a furniture dealer, about the federal government being unreliable drew the biggest laugh of the night. Mr. Obama sat stone-faced.He said that he was happy that it was while he was not in office, Mr. Ruffalo said during an interview after the show.An earlier version of this article gave the wrong name for a class Michelle Obama took in Washington. It was SoulCycle, not Spin Cycle.KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia  The poison used to kill Kim Jong-nam, the half brother of the North Korean leader In a brief statement, Khalid Abu Bakar, the national police chief, said the substance was listed as a chemical weapon under the Chemical Weapons Conventions of 1997 and 2005, to which South Korea has suggested that the killing was the work of the North Korean government. The revelation that a banned weapon was used in such a high-profile killing raises the stakes over how Malaysia and the international community will respond.VX nerve agent can be delivered in two compounds that are mixed at the last moment to create a lethal dose. The police say that two women approached Mr. Kim at the airport with the poison on their hands and rubbed it on his face one after the other.Samples were taken from Mr. Kims skin and eyes. The poison was identified in a preliminary analysis by the Center for Chemical Weapons Analysis of the Chemistry Department of Malaysia, Mr. Khalid said.The Chemical Weapons Convention bans the use and stockpiling of chemical weapons, and North Korea is among the worlds largest possessors of such weapons. In 2014, the South Korean Defense Ministry said the North had stockpiled 2,500 to 5,000 tons of chemical weapons and had a capacity to produce a variety of biological weapons. (The North has conducted five nuclear tests since 2006.)VX is part of a family of nerve agents created decades ago during research into pesticides. It is tasteless and odorless and kills by causing uncontrollable muscle contractions, which eventually stop the victim from breathing. A dose of about 10 milligrams is enough to kill by skin contact, according to the Federation of American Scientists.Several world powers, including the United States and the former Soviet Union, once had large stockpiles of the nerve agent. American stores of VX were destroyed under the Chemical Weapons Convention of 1997, with incineration completed in 2012.In 1994 and 1995, the Japanese cult Aum Shinrikyo used homemade VX to attack three people, one of whom died.North Korea is estimated to have a chemical weapons production capability of up to 4,500 metric tons during a typical year and 12,000 tons during a period of extended crisis. It is widely reported to possess a large arsenal of chemical weapons, including mustard, phosgene and sarin gas, a United States Congressional Research Service report said last year.The announcement by Malaysias police chief came just a day after North Korea denied any responsibility for Mr. Kims death, accusing the Malaysian authorities of , the estranged half brother of Kim Jong-un, at the airport for the Malaysian capital, Kuala Lumpur, a statement attributed to the North Korean Jurists Committee said the greatest share of responsibility for the death rests with the government of Malaysia because Kim Jong-nam died there. And in what could be seen as a threat to Malaysia, the statement noted that North Korea is a nuclear weapons state.. And it gave no indication that it would agree to Malaysias demands to question a senior staff member at the North Korean Embassy in Kuala Lumpur in the investigation into Mr. Kims death.Relatives and acquaintances of the two women Malaysia has accused of carrying out the killing, by applying poison to Kim-Jong-nams face as North Korean agents looked on, insisted they must have been duped into doing so, though the Malaysian authorities say otherwise.I dont believe Huong did such a thing, said Doan Van Thanh, father of Doan Thi Huong, 28, a Vietnamese woman being held in Malaysia. She was a very timid girl. When she saw a rat or frog, she would scream.Mr. Thanh, 63, said he had seen little of his daughter recently. He said she left the familys home, in a village south of Hanoi, at 17 to attend community college, where she studied to be a pharmacist.She later left Vietnam to work in Malaysia without telling her family and rarely visited, Mr. Thanh said. When she returned home in January for the Tet holiday, he said, she stayed only a few days. under the alias Ruby Ruby. Her Facebook photographs and the attached location information appear to show that she had visited Malaysia twice since January, and her Facebook friends include several people who write in Korean.Mr. Binh said that Ms. Huong had also appeared in a singing contest on the television show Vietnam Idol in 2016. In a , a panel of judges rejected Ms. Huong after she sang just one line: I want to stop breathing gloriously so that the loving memory will not fade.North Korea has called for the release of Ms. Huong, an Indonesian woman and a North Korean man who are being held by Malaysia in connection with the death of Mr. Kim.The statement on Thursday from the Jurists Committee was cited by the state-run Korean Central News Agency, in the first comment on the killing from the Norths official news media. The statement accused the Malaysian authorities of pursuing a case full of loopholes and contradictions that proved that its investigators intended to frame us. It said Malaysia had done so under South Korean influence.The statement said Malaysias Foreign Ministry and the local hospital first told the North Korean Embassy in Kuala Lumpur that Mr. Kim had died of heart stroke, asking North Korea to take the body and cremate it.But Malaysian officials attitude began changing after the South Korean news media, citing anonymous sources, reported that Mr. Kim had been poisoned, according to the North Korean statement.The Malaysian secret police got involved in the case and recklessly made it an established fact that the death had been a poisoning, according to the North Korean statement, which did not refer to Mr. Kim by name.The statement questioned how Ms. Huong and the Indonesian suspect in the killing, Siti Aisyah, 25, had survived if, as Malaysian officials said, they had used their hands to apply a deadly poison.Richard C. Paddock reported from Kuala Lumpur, and Choe Sang-Hun from Seoul, South Korea. Reporting was contributed by Chau Doan from Nghia Binh, Vietnam; Fira Abdurachman from Jakarta, Indonesia; and Gerry Doyle and Mike Ives from Hong Kong.President Trump spoke at length about news coverage of his administration on Friday, just hours before some news outlets, including The New York Times, were turned away from a press briefing at the White House.A day after his secretive chief strategist laid out a hard-edged new definition of conservatism animated by attacks on the administrative state, globalism and the corporatist media, Mr. Trump delivered a visceral gut punch of a speech that executed almost all of the tactics that define the forever-war philosophy of the Trump-Bannon West Wing. on Friday, Mr. Trump launched what was easily the most blistering attack on the media and corporate elites of his already bellicose and eventful presidency. His speech also included a promise to throw undocumented immigrants the hell out of the country and a recitation of his law-and-order campaign promises. It represented a not-entirely friendly takeover of CPAC, an establishment Republican group whose leadership once viewed the partys surprise standard-bearer as a noisy interloper.Mr. Bannon, the former Breitbart chief executive who has a hand in nearly every scripted public Trump utterance, had expressed a similar sentiment at the conference the day before. If you think theyre going to give you your country back without a fight, you are sadly mistaken, he said during an appearance with Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff. Every day, it is going to be a fight.His onstage discussion, it turned out, was a philosophy-infused preview of Mr. Trumps populist broadsides, with an admonition to anyone who continues to underestimate the determination of the Trump White House to disrupt the Washington establishment.Mr. Trumps less restrained approach energized CPAC attendees who had once viewed the developer-turned-reality-star as a self-promotional celebrity curiosity  they serenaded him with chants of Trump and U.S.A. And his message is resonating with Republican voters, over 80 percent of whom approve of his job performance, despite historically low levels of support among all voters.But Mr. Trump is intensifying his assault on his enemies on the eve of his first national address before a joint session of Congress, a time when most new presidents are moving in the opposite direction, pivoting from martial campaign rhetoric to the more positive, inclusive language of governance needed to build the coalition necessary to pass major legislation.On an operational level, Mr. Trumps inexperienced but confident White House staff members  dominated by Mr. Bannon  are leaning on Hill Republicans to draft tax overhaul measures and a replacement bill for the Affordable Care Act. In the meantime, they have focused on enacting a series of quick-splash executive orders, an approach often adopted by presidents at the end of their terms when their legislative leverage has been exhausted.As they did during the campaign, Mr. Trump and Mr. Bannon believe they are tapping into an American public less interested in the standard optimistic tropes of presidential politics and more interested in someone who speaks truth to their anxieties. Moreover, aides to Mr. Trump say he fares best when hes able to target  and nickname  an opponent, whether it is Little Marco Rubio, Crooked Hillary Clinton or the Fake News media.Mr. Bannon, bookish and prone to surrounding himself with like-minded young acolytes, previewed Mr. Trumps media-bashing during the Thursday session. Theyre corporatist, globalist media that are adamantly opposed  adamantly opposed to an economic nationalist agenda like  has, he said. I think if you look at the opposition party and how they portray the campaign, how they portrayed the transition and now theyre portraying the administration, its always wrong.The attacks on the news media come at a time when the press has been reporting on the Trump campaigns apparent connections to Russia, the botched rollout of Mr. Trumps executive order on immigration and the forced resignation of Michael T. Flynn, the national security adviser, after less than a month on the job.Theyre very smart, theyre very cunning and theyre very dishonest, Mr. Trump said on a day when his press secretary  for an invitation-only off-camera gaggle for selected reporters. The move, people familiar with the situation said, was enthusiastically backed by Mr. Bannon.The symbiotic political and personal relationship between the two men  the rumpled near-recluse and the compulsively public and image-conscious president  is driving much of the momentum and dysfunction of the White House, aides say.For all his talk of creating a blueprint for a Trumpian conservatism that outlasts the presidents career, Mr. Bannon is not regarded as a detail-oriented manager, and he let slip during his CPAC appearance that things in the White House have gone well  but only to the degree we were planning them.There is not a lot of daylight between Mr. Trump and Mr. Bannon on the issues, although the president often jokes that Mr. Bannons economic populist agenda makes it hard to tell if the former Naval officer and Goldman Sachs executive is alt-right or alt-left, according to a Trump associate friendly with both.The biggest difference between the president and his chief strategist is that Mr. Trump is far less constrained by the dictates of any single philosophy  even Mr. Bannons vision of Trumpism  than Mr. Bannon, who sees history as a succession of movements and power struggles.And while Mr. Bannon described the president as maniacally focused on fulfilling his campaign promises, Mr. Trump often loses focus, as he did during numerous digressions from his scripted remarks on Friday.He unleashed the latest in a succession of surprise rhetorical attacks on longstanding American allies, extemporizing about a friend named Jim who had told him to avoid the City of Lights because after several terrorist attacks, Paris is no longer Paris.Clearly reveling in the adulation of a room that had once been hard to win, the president alternated between a theme of dark days  once again singling out violence on the streets of Chicago  and light comedy. Speaking of a meeting with business leaders this week that included food producers, he quipped, I like Campbells soup.If you remember, it was my first major speech. They said he didnt get a standing ovation  because everybody stood, Mr. Trump said of the speech, in 2011.I had very little notes and even less preparation, he said. And then you leave, and everybody is thrilled, and I say, I like this business.