the-guardian-au
Mathias Cormann says former prime minister risks his legacy if destabilisation of Liberal party continues is in trouble and needs to become more conservative to win the next election, Peta Credlin has warned.Writing in the Daily Telegraph on Sunday, Abbotts former chief of staff claimed that Abbott was attempting to hold the Liberal party together in the face of a surge in One Nation support, despite his party colleagues near-universal opposition to his intervention.The former Abbott loyalist Mathias Cormann warned on Sunday that the former prime minister now risks his legacy if his destabilisation continues. to cut immigration, slash the renewable energy target, abolish the Human Rights Commission and gut the capacity of the Senate to be a roadblock to the governments agenda. that the government was drifting to defeat, with Cormann labelling it a self-indulgent and deliberately destructive intervention.On Sunday, Credlin focused on the view of grassroots members who she said despair at whats happening in Canberra and the way the  has squandered its 2013 landslide victory and believe the government was not focused on ordinary people.The Liberal party is in real trouble, she said, citing the Coalitions 35-point primary vote and that Labor was favourite to win the election.Credlin claimed that supporters of both Abbott and Turnbull are still angry at the removal of an election prime minister and the Coalitions plummeting fortunes ever since.Abbotts former chief of staff said he had acted out of unmasked frustration that, after he won 25 seats off Labor, Turnbull had thrown away 14 seats at the election.Credlin said Pauline Hanson was the real winner, with One Nation benefiting from Coalition voters walking  or running  to the conservative populist party.The drift to populist parties is strongest in western democracies where the centre-right is reluctant to take on potent social issues such as immigration, identity politics and Islamic fundamentalism, she said.Credlin said that while the Liberal party had both a liberal and conservative tradition, its greatest success has come when its governed with conservative instincts.Credlin reasserted Abbotts right as a former prime minister and backbencher to outline what the Coalition needs to do win back support.Although Abbotts colleagues said his intervention had gone too far, some endorsed his policy ideas, such as  to wind back the renewable energy target and cut the immigration rate to boost housing affordability.Credlin said it would have been easier for everyone if Abbott had given his counsel in private but suggested the outburst was necessary because Turnbull no longer listened to him.Tony Abbott is not going anywhere despite attempts to buy him off with a taxpayer job to leave the parliament, she said, adding that it was too late to give him a frontbench role, something Turnbull has refused to do.She claimed Turnbull was desperate to hold on to power whereas Abbott was desperate to hold the Liberal party together.Addressing the perception she acted as a proxy for Abbott in attacking Turnbull, Credlin stressed that she had not worked for him for 18 months and was not his keeper.On Sunday, Cormann said he was prompted to slap down Abbott because private messages hadnt been heeded and it was important to send a message that enough was enough.Cormann said he was a proud member of the Abbott government but warned that its harder to reflect on all the positive parts of the Abbott legacy when weve got to deal with some of those issues that emerged again on Thursday night.He said that John Howard, who lost his seat at the 2007 election and refrained from criticism of his successors as Liberal leader, had set the benchmark for how a former prime minister can contribute.The shadow treasurer, Chris Bowen, told the ABCs Insiders program on Sunday that the government was dysfunctional and was not governing effectively.Bowen said Turnbull had failed to shift the centre of gravity in the Coalition from the conservative right to the sensible centre of [Turnbull] was elected because many in the sensible centre thought he ... would be a better prime minister than They didnt learn our lessons. This is a movie that has been played out before ... They simply are replaying the movie. on Saturday capped a week of tumultuous relations with the press by saying he will not attend this years White House correspondents dinner, which is scheduled for 29 April.The news came as relations between the Trump administration and the news media, which he has called , have sunk to new lows. On Friday, leading outlets including the New York Times, CNN and the Guardian were Editors of excluded organisations expressed anger, although White House Correspondents Association (WHCA) president Jeff Mason, of Reuters, attempted to calm troubled waters. In a statement on Saturday, Mason said the WHCA looks forward to having its annual dinner and added: The WHCA takes note of President Donald Trumps announcement on Twitter that he does not plan to attend the dinner, which has been and will continue to be a celebration of the first amendment and the important role played by an independent news media in a healthy republic.We look forward to shining a spotlight at the dinner on some of the best political journalism of the past year and recognizing the promising students who represent the next generation of our profession. in the White House, law enforcement and intelligence agencies about chaos in his administration, alleged contacts between campaign staff and Russian agents, and White House The difficult relationship between Trump  whose senior adviser Steve Bannon, formerly chief of the rightwing website Breitbart News, has repeatedly called the press  followed Vanity Fair and the New Yorker in saying it would not host a party tied to the dinner. The New York Times has not attended the event since 2008; the Guardian will not attend this year. This week, Buzzfeed Trump followed a familiar path on Friday night, when he wrote on Twitter: FAKE NEWS media knowingly doesnt tell the truth. A great danger to our country. The failing Many observers have linked Trumps run for the presidency with events at the 2011 correspondents dinner, in which Barack Obama The dinner is a traditionally lighthearted affair, celebrities mixing with journalists at tables and comedians roasting the president of the day, as Stephen Colbert did to George W Bush in  and Calvin Coolidge was the first president to attend, in 1924. Since then every president has attended the dinner at least once.   after being shot  and Jimmy Carter and Richard Nixon did not always sit down for dinner. Obama attended all eight events while he was in office. the dinner has been cancelled three times: following the death of former president William Howard Taft, in 1930, after the US entry into the second world war in 1942, and in 1951, during the Korean war.In January, Trump skipped the Alfalfa Club dinner, another key event in the social calendar of a city in which the president is happy to pose as an outsider., told the Guardian on Saturday Trump should act as a champion of press freedom around the world, rather than attacking the media in a way that could send a signal to other countries that it is OK to verbally abuse journalists and undermine their credibility. In a statement, Guardian US editor Lee Glendinning said the exclusion of news outlets from Fridays briefing was deeply troubling and divisive and added: Holding power to account is an essential part of the democratic process, and thats exactly what the Guardian will continue to do.A 73-year-old man died and two others were injured after a man drove a car into pedestrians in a square in the centre of Heidelberg.The attacker, who was armed with a knife, fled before being surrounded by police near a swimming pool in the south-western German town.After a stand-off, the man was shot once by an officer, according to video of the incident posted on social media, then taken to hospital.On Saturday night, Mannheim police said the man suspected of carrying out the attack was a 35-year-old German, and that they did not suspect any terrorist motive.Witnesses told the Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung newspaper that the black Opel car had been waiting at a red light near Bismarckplatz, a busy area in the centre of Heidelberg.After the lights turned green, the car was driven directly at a crowd in a pedestrianised zone near a busy tram and bus stop, outside a Grimminger bakery. The car hit three people then struck a pillar, but was not going fast enough to trip the airbag. The driver got out and ran away from the tram station carrying a knife, but was spotted by bystanders who alerted the police. Officers trapped the man near the entrance to a swimming pool and ordered him to drop the knife, but, according to local media, he refused and was shot.Mannheim police said in a statement last night: Shortly before 4pm, a suspect drove into a group of people in Bismarckplatz in Heidelberg in front of a local bakery branch. This injured three people, one of them seriously. Afterwards, the suspect climbed out of the vehicle and moved away on foot, armed with a knife, towards Bergheimer Strae. In front of the local indoor swimming pool, he was identified by a police patrol on the advice of passersby. During the arrest, the police officers used firearms.Later, police said: The person who was initially seriously injured died at 6pm in a Heidelberg clinic. He was a 73-year-old German national.The police said the two other injured people were a 32-year-old Austrian man and a 29-year-old woman from Bosnia-Herzegovina. They received treatment at the scene and were discharged.The suspect is a 35-year-old German, the police said, who was receiving treatment for his gunshot wounds. Has our view of Sunday really changed enough to warrant a 25% cut in penalty rates for retail workers? The decision by the Fair Work Commission to cut penalty rates for Sundays was of course handed down on a Thursday morning.The decision, which will provide negligible economic benefit and which in the FWCs own words will provide hardship to workers, was announced at 11am on Thursday  at a time when we would all expect a government agency to make such an announcement. And that is important because this decision was not about economics but about what the FWC believes the community expects and how our society has changed.  will be $77 worse off after working an eight-hour Sunday shift, was made purely because the FWC has deemed that Sundays are now less important to people than they used to be.The crux of the decision is contained in one sentence in the FWCs decision, where it suggests that for many workers Sunday work has a higher level of disutility than Saturday work, though the extent of the disutility is much less than in times past.In other words, the FWC argues that people still value their Saturdays higher than Monday to Friday, and they still value their Sundays higher than Saturday, but not by as much as they used to.The biggest change is we go to church a lot less than we used to. But even here that change is something that occurred more in the 1970s and 1980s than in the recent past. The FWC notes that the drop in those who attend church several times a year has fallen from 11.4% in 2004 to 10.5% in 2014  not exactly a huge cultural shift. But you dont need to be a regular church goer to know that Sunday is different from Saturday  just look at the Sunday papers; the television programming; the scheduling of football games. Ask yourself when you would most expect to have your kids playing junior sport  Saturday morning or Sunday? Ask yourself when you would be more likely to have a sleep in or a special family lunch. Has our view of Sunday changed over time? Well possibly, but by how much? Has peoples value of Sundays fallen by 25%, which is the cut in penalty rates for retail workers?The FWC itself noted that while the differences between Saturdays and Sundays have converged over time, there remain significant differences in the activities performed on these days. And yet it believed those differences were not so significant as to reject calls to keep Sunday penalty rates higher. It noted as well that Sunday is more reserved for family time than Saturdays, when spending time with friends and shopping is preferred to Sundays.And that difference is rather crucial, especially given that one of the big cultural changes over time is the increase of both partners working. Spending time with family is not the same when one of the parents is working. You might forgive the FWCs decision if there was some strong economic imperative to it, but what is more evident is the lack of such economic reasoning. About the best the report can cling to is a conclusion that reducing penalty rates may have a modest positive effect on employment. The FWC noted other economic factors influence whether or not the impact will be significant or even positive. But the evidence that cutting penalty rates alone will do anything is pretty weak. And we dont even need to use economic theory  we have the experience of the FWC cutting penalty rates for restaurant and cafe workers in July 2014 to go by. Laughably, none of the business owners called as witnesses by the restaurant and catering industry association were able to suggest to the FWC that the cut to penalty rates had caused them to increase either the number of employees or the number of hours worked. The other reason why the FWC is rather less than certain about the impact of the decision is that it notes any potential positive employment effects  are likely to be reduced due to substitution and other effects.The reasoning is simple  while conservatives might like to think that supply creates its own demand, making it cheaper for a business to open on a Sunday does not create more shoppers with more money to spend. What it will likely do is see people shift their spending from other times of the week to Sunday  especially as no one is suggesting this decision will see businesses reduce their prices.The government, conservatives and business groups will cheer this decision as being great for the economy and, absurdly, good for workers because they can work more hours.And yet the FWC itself rejected this notion, stating that in general, most existing employees would probably face reduced earnings. The FWC asserted that it was improbable that  existing workers hours on Sundays would rise sufficiently to offset the income effects of penalty rate reductions.The average worker in accommodation and food services earns $524 a week and those in the retail trade earn just $687  compared with $1,163 for all Australian workers. In effect, the FWC has determined that Sundays are less important because those of us who dont work on that day are now more desirous to have the lowest-paid working in shops and cafes in order to serve us on our day off, and that they should receive less pay for doing so. Victorian laws would allow tenants to be evicted without notice for late payment of rent or for damage done to propertyThe proposed changes were suggested as options for reform during a two-year review of the act and would allow landlords to evict tenants without notice for late payment of rent, even if the rent had since been repaid, or for damage done to the property, even if the damage had since been repaired.The Council to Homeless Persons acting chief executive, Kate Colvin, said the proposals went against the intention of the review, which was to provide greater security and certainty for tenants.We think that could lead to an increase in the number of people being evicted, she told Guardian Australia. Its almost impossible to see how someone wouldnt just end up sleeping on the street in that circumstance. It allows almost no time to come up with alternative accommodation.Colvin said homeless shelters did not have the capacity to cope with a large number of people who had been evicted under laws allowing for zero days notice., would also disadvantage landlords because tenants would have no incentive to remedy damage or rent in arrears. Eviction from private rental properties is a key cause of homelessness in Victoria, Colvin said, and people renting at the lower end of the market already accept rent hikes, poor living conditions and unrepaired damage because they are afraid of being kicked out.Thats where you see people in really unsatisfactory rental options because they just have so few options, she said. Often in that circumstance people will accept basically whatever is offered and people end up renting a shed out the back of someone elses house or renting a place that does have a rat infestation or has mould.Other changes proposed in the options paper include setting a minimum standard for rental properties, setting a specific legal requirement that a property be fit for habitation and capping lease-break fees at two weeks rent in cases of hardship or when a person has been accepted into public housing.The proposed changes in the options report were suggested in consultation with landlords and tenants and will be considered by the government in drafting the updated Residential Tenancies Act, which is expected to be introduced in parliament in 2018.Colvin said introducing minimum housing standards would improve conditions for the poorest renters. Under Victorias current rental laws, there is no enforceable minimum standard setting out what she described as things essential to basic standards of living such as natural light or secure locks.I think people would be shocked at places where some people live, she said. The competition at the cheaper end of the market is so fierce, people end up in places that are frankly just dangerous.Increasing the supply of low-cost housing and improving renting conditions would help stem the flow of people becoming homeless in Victoria, Colvin said., who would also be provided with intensive counselling and support as part of a $9.8m package in response to a high-profile increase in the number of people camping out near Flinders Street station.Boxing legends 44-year-old son detained and questioned about religion after flying back to US from Jamaica, lawyer saysWhere did you get your name from? Are you a Muslim? they asked the 44-year-old Muhammad Ali Jr, who was born in Philadelphia and is a US citizen.When Ali confirmed to immigration officials at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood international airport in Florida that he was a Muslim, they began questioning him about where he was born, family friend and lawyer Chris Mancini Ali had been at a black history month event in Jamaica with his mother, Khalilah Camacho-Ali. She was allowed to enter the country after producing a photo of herself with her famous ex-husband, who died last year, but her son had nothing to prove his link to the boxer.The 7 February incident was the first time the family had been detained or questioned in this way, despite regular international travel, Mancini said.They consider it religious profiling linked to President Donald Trumps campaign promise to bring in a Muslim ban and his now-suspended executive order banning citizens from seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the US.To the Ali family, its crystal clear that this is directly linked to Mr Trumps efforts to ban Muslims from the United States, Mancini said, adding that they were trying to find out how many others faced similar questioning, and were contemplating filing a federal lawsuit.Imagine walking into an airport and being asked about your religion, Mancini told the paper. This is classic customs profiling.Alis is the latest in a string of complaints about US immigration controls after the inauguration of Trump. earlier this month and questioned over a visit to Iran three years ago, which he had made to speak at a human rights conference. at Los Angeles international airport. The 70-year-old said she was left sobbing like a baby after two hours of questioning while on her way to a conference. was denied entry to the US. The foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, had previously claimed the US government had committed to allowing all UK passport holders to enter the country.Melbourne MPs Telmo Languiller and Don Nardella resign over allowance designed to support MPs living in the country has promised a review of Victorian parliamentary expenses rules after speaker Telmo Languiller and deputy speaker Don Nardella were forced to resign.Speaking to reporters on Sunday, the Victorian premier said he had asked the special minister of state, Gavin Jennings, to look at loopholes in parliamentary allowances and present the first wave of amendments to cabinet on Monday.Essentially, Ive asked the special minister of state to give me advice on changing the rules so that this can never happen again, and that the rules as we look to the future are black and white, Andrews said. No room for interpretation.In a general sense, is it any wonder that few people think highly of democratically elected members of parliament? he said. Is it any wonder that there is a cynicism, that there is a scepticism, that there is a distrust of so many members of parliament when we see behaviour, appalling behaviour, just like this? Ill have no part of it and Ill make important changes to ensure what happened here can never occur again. However Andrews said he would not crack down on MPs living outside their electorate, saying that if a person had been elected by that community then they should be allowed to represent them in parliament.The pair resigned on Saturday after days of controversy over their use of an allowance designed to support country MPs living more than 80km from Melbourne.The former speaker Telmo Languiller claimed $37,000 in second residence allowances while living on the coast south of Melbourne instead of his western suburbs electorate.The deputy speaker Don Nardella was also found to have claimed about $100,000 in allowances for living an hour from his Melton electorate in Ocean Grove on the Bellarine Peninsula since April 2014.Languiller said he understood that offering to repay the allowance was not enough, in a statement announcing his resignation on Saturday afternoon.No matter what difficult personal circumstances I may have been going through, I have to recognise it as an error of judgment and I accept that I should pay the price for that error of judgement, he said.It is self-evident that the second residence allowance is meant for regional MPs who must travel to Melbourne for parliament, he said in a statement on Saturday. For that reason, I have asked the special minister of state to urgently determine what changes are required so what has occurred in these instances does not happen again.Iraqi Kurdish leaders are considering offering territory seized by their forces in the offensive to recapture  once the jihadi group is routed. Ministers from the Kurdistan regional government (KRG) believe that one option might be offering to Baghdad land their peshmerga forces have recaptured from Isis in return for self-rule, the pinnacle of Kurdish ambition for decades.Speaking from his office in the Iraqi Kurdistan capital of Erbil, foreign minister Falah Mustafa said that, although the Mosul alliance of Iraqi and peshmerga troops was on course to quash Isis in Iraqs second city, the time had arrived for Kurdistan to move forward by itself.Its important that the right to self-determination is put on the table  we need to put an end to this  [with Baghdad]. We are neither fully integrated into Iraq, nor are we fully independent and sovereign.We need to sit down to discuss the future of Erbil and Baghdad, including independence. Now is the time to discuss a new formula for this relationship. What we have has failed.Bolstering Kurdistans newfound impetus for self-rule is the conviction that the Trump administration might be willing to support Kurdish dreams of independence. Already President Masoud Barzani of the Kurdistan region has seriously discussed independence with Mike Pence, the US vice-president.Mustafa said: The preliminary contacts we have had prior, during and after the US election are encouraging. We believe we have a good opportunity to further develop our ties. Soon there will be [more] contact with our leadership and the US leadership. Its all encouraging. We are optimistic., and the Nineveh Plains, a largely Christian area, to both eventually become autonomous regions along the lines of the KRG.For the KRG itself, one potential pawn in its campaign to cut loose from Baghdad is the huge swathe of land peshmerga forces have , and scores of villages and thousands of square miles of territory including much of Kirkuk province, northern Diyala and Sinjar. In total, the Kurds have increased the land mass under their control by up to 40%.Peshmerga military sources point out that such territory was won at the cost of Kurdish lives. One officer said that, in one assault alone on the former Isis stronghold of Bashiqa, 31 peshmerga fighters were killed. As of last week, 1,682 had died and 9,787 were injured during its gruelling 30-month war against Isis, an intensive campaign that has exacted a punishing toll on the regions fragile economy.Karim Sinjari, the minister of the interior and acting minister of peshmerga affairs, said: The war costs a lot. The martyr families have to be taken care of, the wounded need to be treated.Another issue will be claiming the spoils of the victory in Mosul itself. Although the peshmerga have agreed not to enter the city, Kurdish forces were in securing and holding large areas of territory around the northern metropolis before allowing the Iraqi army to complete the mission.When asked what leverage Erbil was prepared to use in independence talks, Mustafa said that of course land was a factor to be considered. It is an important issue. Responsibility, territory, the oil issue, finances, the airspace  all need to be discussed. We want to start this dialogue with Baghdad peacefully, recognising that we will always have a strategic relationship, he said.Among most of the Kurdish norths 5.5 million population, severing ties with Iraq cannot come soon enough, with the sense that Iraqs central government no longer even pretends to care for Kurdish rights. Baghdad wants us to be subordinate, subjugated. We reject that. The deal with a federal He added that if Baghdad refused to recognise their arguments, they may stage a referendum to legitimise their campaign for self-rule. A previous unofficial referendum held in 2005 found that 99% were in favour out of the two million who turned out.But it is the peshmergas military successes against Isis that ministers hope will provide timely influence in the quest for statehood. Donald Trump  who has against Isis; they have been credited with halting the Islamist militants 2014 surge across the country. The KRG points out that such success was achieved in spite of Baghdad, rather than because of its support.In the two years we are fighting Daesh [Isis], all we got from Baghdad is some ammunition. They give almost nothing to the peshmerga, not their salaries, their costs, nothing, said Sinjari. But Sinjari also warned that, once Isis has been routed from Iraq, the dynamic that saw many Sunni Muslims initially welcome the group as liberators from the Shia-dominated forces of Baghdad might not easily be vanquished.Daesh will not finish quickly. Their territory will be defeated, but here [pointing to his head] they will stay. We have to solve the reason why Daesh have come. If we dont, another will come. Al-Qaida finished, then Daesh came. Daesh finished, another comes.Fifty-five miles west from Sinjaris office  the frontlines in Mosul  the latest reports reveal that Iraqi security forces are continuing to  into the city with attacks mounted against jihadi defences on several fronts. However, Sinjari warned that progress might slow down as Iraqi troops encroached upon the citys labyrinthine historic centre and the fight descended into a slog.In the old city you cant use tanks or armoured vehicles, so itll be a fight from house to house. But Daesh have lost many of their fighters in the eastern side, thousands. Their strongest force has been killed, especially the foreign fighters.The minister also warned of dirty tactics, with Islamists using some of the 750,000 civilians trapped in the densely populated city as human shields.In the eastern side of the city  cleared last month  residents are starting to trickle back, although the KRG is  1.8 million internally displaced Iraqis and Syrian refugees from the regions upheaval and are calling for urgent humanitarian support from the international community.Sinjari, describing a recent trip to a local hospital, said: In every bed they had four kids, three internally displaced people, and one local. You can see how much pressure the issue is having on our services.The Australia captain and his coach Darren Lehmann have talked of resilience and adaptation after recent disasters, and those qualities were at the fore to end a 13-year wait for a Test win in India wants everyone to know: the days since Australia last won a Test in India. Way back then, it was the only time the national side had triumphed in a series in this country since The Beatles stopped writing songs. Then, it was a team resembling the Harlem Globetrotters for the champions they boasted. It truly was their final frontier.When directly asked last month if his charges could do the same, the Australian captain avoided the question. It was taken as a tacit admission that he didnt believe it himself. And fair enough. After all, this Indian side shares many similarities to the Australians of 13 years ago for their dominance at home, going 19 Tests and four years unbeaten their turf. The pressure was off us wasnt it? Smith observed in the afterglow of the memorable, confounding rout. Everyone wrote us off and said India would win four-nil. Sure did. Careful expectation management? Less that, and more an evidence base of Australias demolition in their last nine starts on this continent.From the time India left Australia on the receiving end of a two-nil defeat two years ago, this return bout has loomed. No one could forget what happened last time. Optimistically, the plan was to get used to winning away again via an Ashes salute in England. Fine-tune in Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, flog a few teams at home, and then come here to be certified as the worlds best. Something like that. Instead, the road has been considerably more rugged.But now, a new reality where everything is back on the table. Where Smiths men can let their hair down and dream a bit. With a side nowhere near as accomplished as those who won here before them, but one that might have just enough of the right pieces in the right places at the right time. . His century was wondrous for different reasons to the usual. Smith is most often the guy who sets up the Test with a huge first innings; who bats 300 balls and destroys a contest before the opposition has batted. Second-innings tons are a different beast. Theyre seldom as fluent. Theyre tense. Theyre scrappy. This was all of that and more, with dropped catches, sketchy running and beaten edges all standard features . He still walked off as only the third Australian to reach three figures second time at bat in India.It was so good because it fed directly into the slipstream of words Smith and his predecessor have used to deal with their collection of unflattering disasters over the last couple of years. How many times did Smith mouth resilient in interviews  A dozen or more. Adaptation is the term that coach Darren Lehmann prefers. Th at is the essence of what the leadership of this team craves; to grow into considerably more than hometown bullies. To be strong above the shoulders, and for it to show around the world.In Sri Lanka last year, throwing away solid starts to Tests became part of the routine when they strayed from the preferred course. Smith knew that couldnt happen here. To un do  would be the best way to ensure that it wouldnt happen again on this tour. It is this mentality that defined his stay, lasting until India were batted well out of the game with a lead nearing 400.His best innings? Its got to be right up there, Smith said after play. He acknowledged riding his luck, but added that you need to when the ball is turning square, and the two best finger spinners on the planet are coming at you. Thats the resilience he was talk ing about. Smith went on: I had to formulate some different plans to how I normally play, to problem solve on the spot. There is the definition of adaptation.Smiths calm was also highlighted due to his opposing numbers frustration. It was on display most obviously when burning his second innings reviews in a desperate effort to see optimistic shouts overturned. Th ose blunders hurt a lot more when Smith was leg-before on 77, with no provision to refer. Smith sensed that Virat Kohli was angry. Its hard to make good decisions when youre angry, perhaps explaining why he was later bowled without offering a shot.Then theres the uplifting story of Steve OKeefe, Smiths old housemate. He has one of those numbers too: 4,117. Th ats the number of times he has gone to bed between his New South Wales debut and today. A long time coming, he laughed after being named man of the match, enjoying his first innings 6-for-35 so much he 56 players had won baggy greens between then and now, 12 of those asked in one way or another to participate in Australias spin attack. It was enough time for his twin in tweak, Nathan Lyon, to become the most successful ever Australian finger spinner. Im just relieved, OKeefe said. After his first bag, he explained losing hope after his Sri Lankan tour was cruelly ended by injury. Today, hes a national hero.His trick isnt magic. Its persistence, the bedfellow of resilience and adaptation. Persistence to stay in touching distance of the national squad. Persistence to execute what every bowler is told but only the best can do: consistently hit a length.OKeefe also cites belief. Not necessarily that he would bowl Australia to victory, but that at the very least he could keep dropping into that same area, and in doing so he would always be in with a chance. Its a bit old-fashioned, but he is too. Equally, the belief that Smith showed in him as a bowler. He now has the best figures ever registered by an away spinner in India.The surface may never suit OKeefe  or forgotten man Lyon  quite as well as it did this week. After ordering the local curator to produce a dry turner in Pune, surely the powers-that-be will hear Smith when he says the conditions played into our hands.Whatever the case, you can bank on both OKeefe hitting his spot, and Smith setting the example by batting in a way that embodies his words. Then, if they do it all again next weekend, they will have a trophy to pick up in Bangalore. Expectations. Who needs them?Former labor secretary and progressive congressman call for unity against Trump after party race that became symbol of centrist-progressive divisions was elected chairman of the Democratic National Committee (DNC) on Saturday, after a fiercely fought campaign. He will now lead a party still divided after the surprising election of Donald Trump but energized by the liberal backlash to his presidency. When the result of the second ballot was announced, chanting erupted from the back of the hotel ballroom where Ellisons supporters sat, wearing green shirts and carrying signs that read unite. Not big money, party for the people, they chanted, drowning out the remarks of the interim chairwoman, Donna Brazile. Perezs supporters, wearing blue, celebrated with a heavy sign of relief after a dramatic round of balloting. Perez won in the second vote, after missing out by just one vote in the first round of voting.The threshold for victory in the second round was 218 votes, out of 435 voters. Perez gained 235 to 200 for Ellison. After announcing the result, Brazile presented the gavel to Perez. He presented a motion to name Ellison as deputy chair, which passed unopposed. Both men used their remarks after the vote to appeal for party unity, the race for DNC chair having become a symbol of divisions that opened during the 2016 presidential primary between , was viewed with suspicion by progressives who believe he represents the so-called establishment. Ellison, the first Muslim member of Congress, is a longtime activist for grassroots causes.Weve got earnest, sincere work to do under Chairman Perez, he said, adding: We dont have the luxury of walking out of here divided.Perez made similar appeals. I really want to apologise to the media because we did talk about issues, he said, like Ellison heralding a campaign they said was free of partisan rancor. We didnt do any of the other stuff, and thats what the Democratic party is about.In a joint press conference afterward, Perez and Ellison, wearing each others campaign buttons, again insisted that the party was not divided.To his supporters, Ellison said: If you care about people who have their loved ones cemeteries being desecrated like the Jewish community is facing right now, if you care about people who have walls being built against them, being banned for their religion, and having their healthcare taken away from them, if you care about those people, then you got to stay in here and back Tom Perez for chair.One progressive group called the result a missed opportunity to fuse opposition to Trump with the Democratic party. This incredibly disappointing result is another missed opportunity for a Democratic party desperately trying to regain relevance said Jim Dean, chair of Democracy for America, which endorsed Ellison. [It] proves, once again, how out of touch party insiders are with the grassroots movement currently in the streets, on the phone, and at town halls nationwide.The resistance will persist in showing progressive leaders how to unrelentingly take on Trump, with or without the leadership of the Democratic National Committee. Congratulations to Thomas Perez, who has just been named Chairman of the DNC. I could not be happier for him, or for the Republican Party!After the vote, Perez said Democrats were suffering from a crisis of confidence, a crisis of relevance, but promised to take the fight to Trump and to support Democrats against Republicans in elections nationwide. On Twitter, he responded to Trump in kind:When voting began, members voted by paper ballot and had two minutes to make their choice among the six candidates then still in the running. The first count was excruciatingly close. Perez finished with 213.5 votes, having needed 214.5 to win. Ellison won 200, taking the contest into a second round.All of the candidates withdrew except for Ellison and Perez. Jehmu Greene, a former Fox News political consultant who earned half a vote, endorsed Perez. Peter Peckarsky, a Wisconsin attorney who earned no votes, endorsed Ellison. In the frantic moments between the results and the distribution of the second ballots, the campaigns and their supporters spread across the convention center ballroom in a last-ditch attempt to sway members to their side. Perez waded into the crowd, smiling and shaking hands as he secured commitments. withdrew from the race before voting began and without endorsing a candidate, thereby unleashing at least a few dozen commitments late in the contest.The popular, 35-year-old Rust Belt mayor and openly gay Afghanistan veteran left the race after a streak of national media attention and without angering either faction. He is widely believed to hold higher political ambitions, especially as a young member of a party in search of new talent. Theres nothing wrong with our bench, Buttigieg said. We just havent called enough people on our bench off the bench and asked them to get out in the field. After his victory, Perez said: Mayor Pete is going to be the example of how Democrats win statewide in red states.The winner inherits a party demoralized by years of losses at local, state and national levels. A surge of activism by liberal groups in reaction to an unpopular Republican president, however, offers hope of new purpose.As chair  in equal parts a tactician, a fundraiser and an opposition leader  Perez will need to immediately prepare for races in 2017 and the midterms in 2018. Part of the challenge will lie in healing the rift between centrists and progressives while developing a message to resonate beyond liberal enclaves.He will also have to rebuild trust in an organization that was engulfed in controversy last year, after the publication of hacked emails that appeared to show committee staffers favoring Clinton over Sanders and led to the resignation as chair of The race to replace Wasserman Schultz attracted national attention and had all the trappings of a presidential campaign, with candidates embarking on bus tours and competing in televised debates. The vote was ultimately decided, however, by 435 voting members of the DNC. That lead Buttigieg to compare it to a high school student council race.