the-lad-bible
The long-awaited sequel to Jeepers Creepers has officially started filming and the title has been announced as So far the plot has suggested to be as follows: "Trish Jenner is now a mother of a teenage son named Darry, named after the brother she lost 23 years ago."Trish has a recurring nightmare where her son suffers the same fate as her brother did, killed by the Creeper."Determined to prevent this from happening, Trish, who is now a rich and powerful woman, sets out on a final quest with Jack Taggart Sr. and Jr. to end the Creeper's reign of terror once and for all."The teaser poster portrays the silhouette of the Creeper, with the same jagged font as the previous two movies. A swarm of ravens or crows form a black '3' across a darkening sky.In 1988, Salva was convicted of sexual misconduct with a 12-year-old boy, Nathan Forrest Winters, who had acted in two of his films. Commercial videotapes and magazines containing child pornography were also found at Salva's home.The film was shot in British Columbia, Canada, earlier this year and faced local opposition during filming. In its circular to local talent agents, the Union of British Columbia Performers noted Salva's conviction."It has recently come to our attention that a casting breakdown has gone out for a feature film entitled Jeepers Creepers III, and that the director of the film, Victor Salva, was convicted of sexual misconduct in 1988," read the circular."The conviction allegedly resulted from misconduct involving a minor whom Mr Salva was directing at the time. At this time we would like to remind our members and their agents that, under Article A2702 (Safety & Welfare of a Minor) of the BC Master Production Agreement, a performer has the right to refuse work if they believe that the nature of the work is unsafe."Two years ago Abu Tahseen, a now 63-year-old sniper, joined the resistance against ISIS. Since he joined up he has killed over 300 extremist fighters as he battles to free his homeland from jihadi forces.Mr Tahseen is a veteran of five wars and has volunteered with Iraq's Popular Mobilisation Units, where he's put his deadly skills to use by killing 321 ISIS fighters since 2015, A video emerged of the elderly soldier taking out enemy snipers hiding in the Makhoul Mountains in the north of Iraq...He says: "You see this area? I guarantee to God no one would come up it. I'm relaxed. My mind is relaxed."When I get my rotation I just want to get back here. Last time they gave me a month off and after 12 days I came back."According to Mr Tasheen, his rifle is capable of blowing a man a metre back when they're struck by the bullet.He also claims that he's so accurate that ISIS fighters have become afraid to walk through the mountains.Mr Tasheen is just one of many volunteer fighters, many of whom fought ISIS in Syria but returned to defend Iraq when the group gained a foothold in the country.38-year-old Andrew Apperley from Eastbourne, Sussex, was on holiday in Thailand, attending Full Moon Party at the island of Ko Phagen when he started sending chilling messages to his family and friends that people were out to kill him.He sent the messages in the early hours of February 13, and talks of a "scary guy with the face mask," among others. He was reported missing four days later after not returning to his hotel at nearby island Koh Samui and the police have since found and identified his body.In a string of messages to different people, the father of one also talks about mushrooms, which could infer that he had taken magic mushrooms, which have hallucinogenic effects."He knew Thailand well - he'd been around 10 times and the people he was with say he was in good spirits out there, just trying to have a good time."He did take drugs but he didn't go overboard and he knew how to take care of himself. You can see from the messages that he knew he'd been spiked and that he was in danger."The other day PornHub revealed that its most searched for keyword in the world was 'Step Mum/Step Mom'. Fancy that, apparently there's lots of us fantasising about shagging our dad's new wife.Bit odd, really, when you think about it. But I bet you've gone onto the search bar in the past and had a gander, haven't you?So why the hell has it had more searches than the usual suspects - lesbian, anal and my personal favourite, 'underwhelming and uninspiring'. (actual name) on the subject, and her sentiments are kind of along the lines of 'it's incest, but it's not illegal incest', which isn't disconcerting at all."[It's popular because it's] incest, but it's technically not incest. She's not your biological mum. As if that matters in a fantasy."I'm not so sure personally that the reason is purely that; perhaps the age of the step mum could be around her 30s and that is something people desire, similar to MILF? I like to think this is more logical."There's an element of voyeurism. What people are curious about in porn versus what they actually like to do or want to do don't always match up."You could go on your partner's laptop and discover a bunch of videos of spanking, for example, but that doesn't mean your partner necessarily wants to try that IRL.Porn trends have changed over the years. MILF always used to stand proud, but now it's been overtaken as people use their imagination a bit more.2015s top searches found 'lesbian' come out on top (pun kind of intended), with 'teen' in second. 'Step mom' was still popular then, coming in at number three, showing there's still as strong market for those more mature, while cartoon (yes cartoon), comes fourth, with 'MILF' down at five.Big risers are black and step sister (here we go again, wanting to shag your non-biological sister), with the former jumping 16 places to 10th and the latter rising six places to seventh. one theory could be that viewers act out their opposite fantasy - the unobtainable. So those in the 00s who desired a more mature woman now know the reality as their sexual inquisitiveness has been answered, and now they go for the new unknown and unobtainable again - part of this is 'younger' women, or older women that are actually related - so MILF has been replaced basically by teen and step mum.Only that's part of the faade. People searching know that most 18 year olds in videos are actually anything but, and many are in their mid-20s or older. Dressing them up in school clothes may be naughty, perhaps even pervy, but not necessarily harmful. That's where I stand. I don't believe people really wish to have sex with barely legal teens in school uniforms. Or with their step mums/step sisters. If they do, we have a major problem.That said, I do think it's odd that 'teen' has come either top or second in the past four years. With such a plethora of choice, it's uninspiring that such a basic keyword is the top search. You can search any nationality, any orifice, anything. Use your imagination!'Lesbian', which was the number one search in 2015, makes sense to me. Seeing a massive penis can make you feel inferior in that department, and a hairy arsehole isn't the best for viewing pleasure. Straight girls also perhaps enjoy watching lesbian porn with their boyfriend more than a man watching male gay porn, while, of course, lesbian women will also get turned on by lesbian porn. That trend is staying. before, meaning MILF is becoming obsolete? Perhaps it's just an adaptation to societal trends that has been noted in trending porn searches? has got off to a surprisingly controversial start, with the Geordie duo having to issue an on-air apology after a contestant swore live on air.The girl in question was seen mouthing "fuck off" during a competition segment of the TV show tonight during a part of the show giving away a holiday to Disney World in Florida.Dec said: "I have to say we're very sorry if somebody got a bit excited and said something they shouldn't have.Among other fuck-ups was Stephen Mulhern's entrance. The magician and presenter was meant to be shot out of a cannon...Then things went from bad to worse for Ant and Dec, as Declan Donnelly failed to get his words out while talking about the 1 million cash prize one audience member could win.Most of will probably recognise the Fairtrade symbol. You might even let it influence your purchases; I know that I will choose coffee that has the Fairtrade symbol because even though I don't know much about it, I know that, basically, it's a good thing.Fairtrade fortnight is about to kick off in the UK and I thought it was as good a time as any to find out what those extra pennies on my coffee and chocolate are actually going towards.In Kenya's coffee and tea-growing regions, one in three people live in poverty, while tea pickers in Malawi earn less than 1.46 a day. This is not enough to provide decent food, education or healthcare for their families or invest in better farming; no matter how hard they work they can't work themselves out of poverty until they're given a fair deal - and this is where the Fairtrade Foundation comes in.So, in its most basic form, when you choose Fairtrade you're choosing to give a better deal to producers from trade.All Fairtrade farmers and workers - and there's over 1.65 million in total - are guaranteed certain standards, including giving producers better prices, decent working conditions and fair terms of trade - hence the name.These standards also cover things such as the protection of workers' rights and the environment, payment of the Fairtrade minimum price and working towards improving the communities in which producers live and work in.Fairtrade works in more than 74 developing countries right across the world and because Fairtrade is 50 percent owned by the farmers and workers it helps, they are personally involved in making decisions that affect them, their communities and other producers, farmers and workers.It isn't just coffee, tea and chocolate that can get the Fairtrade accreditation, either; producers of fruit, flowers, jewellery, cotton and even booze can sign up to get themselves a better deal.The Fairtrade Foundation was set up in 1992, with the aim of empowering disadvantaged producers in developing countries. The need for the organisation was borne out of the fact that small-scale farmers can quite easily be marginalised and taken advantage of when it comes to trading. By having the backing of an organisation as big Fairtrade they can broker better deals and make sure that they are paid fairly for their work.As well as ensuring a fair price and working conditions, the foundation also hands out a 'Fairtrade Premium' to invest in business or community projects.In 2013-14, Fairtrade paid out 106.2 million (89 million) in premiums, which can go on to totally transform the lives of producers and their communities. Individual producers, who are awarded the grants, are left to determine what the money is best spent on, so this could mean sending children to school, building roads and bridges or improving their business.Millions of people are helped via the foundation each year; one of those people is Edson Moatchedwe, a 45-year-old tea farmer and father of seven from Malawi. He is also the chairman of the Sukambizi Association Trust (SAT) where he meets up with other farmers to discuss farming techniques.Edson uses one of the motorbikes SAT members chose to invest their Fairtrade Premium in so he can reach more farmers to train them in better agricultural practices.While the motorbike is also useful when someone needs to get to hospital urgently, there's an ambulance the farmers decided to buy with the premium, which Edson reveals saved his childrens' lives when they had malaria.It isn't just motorbikes that farmers have used the Fairtrade Premium for to set the wheels of change in motion. There's a new school on the way, which Edson feels will cut down on the number of pupils that leave because it's closer to the community.Edson's children currently travel at least an hour to get to school - the new one will take around 10 minutes to reach, he says. "I feel great, because the children's future is tied to education," he added.Another business decision the co-operative made was to invest the premium in a bridge to link a nearby village, opening it up to vehicles for the first time, making transporting the tea crop more efficient and trading easier.Adam Gardner, communities campaign manager for the Fairtrade Foundation at the Fairtrade Foundation, said: "The food on our tables, the tea and coffee in our mugs, all come from farmers who work hard but are not paid what they deserve."Whether in the UK or in Malawi, no-one deserves to be short-changed for a hard day's work. Yet, not enough people are buying Fairtrade and not enough farmers are benefiting from it."So, if you want to change people's lives without doing very much, then looking out for the Fairtrade Foundation symbol is a pretty easy way. from Abertay University, which found that ethical food tastes better. Dr Boyka Bratanova and her team gave people identical food products to taste and score, but were told some of the food was produced ethically and some was not. Those who were told that they were eating ethically produced food rated it higher.A woman in Canada taught a man who refused to take his feet off a subway a lesson he will never forget.Footage of a heated exchange, in which the anonymous rogue vigilante confronts the youth, has gone viral - as she appeared to deal with the situation in the best way.The man retaliates by banging on the train's window and shouting: "I don't care is there a fucking rule, right here, that says I can't put my seat right there?"You started this. I didn't. You had to come sit your fucking fat ass on my leg so leave me the fuck alone."The man later appears to push the woman away from the seat and in response she pulls the emergency alarm.The woman has since claimed that she did not sit on the man's legs but in front of them, reports The Toronto Star.Speaking about the experience, she said: "If I see some small injustice being done in society, I try to correct it."Do a job that you love and you'll never work a day in your life. That how the old saying goes, at least.So then, if you have the credentials, prepare to go on a permanent vacation because Walkers is looking for someone to eat crisps for a living.PepsiCoUK, the company which owns Walkers, has just advertised a part-time food tester vacancy, which let's face it probably has to be the best job in the world.For 8.51 per hour, you will work a maximum of eight hours per week between 9am-5pm, Monday to Thursday in Leicester, using your discerning taste buds to identify flavours and textures.The brand is looking for a non-smoker with no food intolerances. You must have good interpersonal, communication and IT skills, and you also must be prepared to consume a wide variety of foods and beverages.Other PepsiCo products include Lay's crisps, Diet Pepsi, Tropicana, Doritos and Cheetos, which means you'll be sampling all of those snacks too., super tester Krystina Mason, who has worked at the company for six years, said: "On a day-to-day basis we have to make sure our palates are clean - I like to drink lemon water. We are not allowed to drink tea or coffee because it will interfere with the palate."We have to have 20 minute breaks between tests, where we will eat fruit so we know our taste buds are cleansed.There is definitely an air of responsibility to the role, but that's a challenge that we're willing to accept.The mesmerising process has allowed us to attempt the 'Pringle Ringles', which has been a pretty popular challenge this week. The perfectly shaped  biscuit allows those of us with enough time on our hands to flawlessly form this incredible sculpture.But it's because of its faultless physical appearance that means that this food item is not a crisp, according to the court.In 2008, the case as to whether the product is a potato crisp or whether it should technically be a biscuit or cake was debated in court.Well, the court ruled that the snack, which is made of 42 percent potato, should not be categorised as a potato crisp product. That's because of the tube's 'unnatural shape'.Pringles are more like a cake or a biscuit, the Inland Revenue claimed, because they are also manufactured from dough. was reportedly waving a ceremonial sword around, pretending to knight James Blunt and she accidentally whacked Ed Sheeran and left a bit cut on his face, right?. Although he was very careful to not actually tell the story himself, he pretty much confirmed the events. However, rather than blame a princess, Ed jokingly decided to blame James Blunt, saying: "It was James Blunt. It was James Blunt trying to get his pop career back."Well, now James Blunt has appeared on the exact same show and given his side of the story... kind of.As far as we all know, Ed was rushed to A&E and then came back to the party to carry on having a good time.However, Blunt said: "If he said his face got cut while she was 'knighting' me then dashed to A&E before returning to the party, then he is a liar!"For a start, she is a princess and would be rehearsed and practiced in these matters, and given the NHS waiting lists it would have been impossible to get to hospital and back so quickly!"It seems 'Cash me Ousside' girl Danielle Bregoli has reach that 11th minute of her 15 minutes of fame where she's getting paid merely to appear in public.She's got the T-shirts, the music video, the celebrity beef, and now she's just raking in the $$$ by simply being Danielle Bregoli, a 13-year-old Internet sensation - at the risk of sounding about 79.The bossman behind the company hosting the festival told the site he's made a deal to throw Danielle a 14th birthday party next month, and she's going to get a healthy chunk of the ticket sales.The viral star recently went in on Kylie Jenner during a radio interview, saying: "I don't like her. Like the way that she does shit, like urgh... It seems like she wants attention so bad. Like little bitch would do anything."How do you go from fucking lips the size of a twig and a body that looks like a fucking paperclip and now you look like a hourglass? Like man, what the fuck?!" she continued.