the-huffington-post
s presidential campaign and the U.S. election hacking needs a special prosecutor  not Attorney General Jeff Sessions., also seemed to agree with host Bill Maher that Sessions should recuse himself from the investigation.Maher posed a question to Issa about the FBIs investigation Trump-Russia by flipping the controversy on its head.Maher asked Issa if, in 2012, he would let it slide had Russians hacked Mitt Romneys campaign and been in talks with former President We need an independent prosecutor, Maher said later. And Jeff Sessions should recuse himself, the same way Loretta Lynch recused herself, because he was a part of the Trump campaign, is that correct? Maher asked, referring to former Attorney General Lynch and Rep. Darrell Issa appears to tell Bill Maher that Jeff Sessions should recuse himself & special prosecutor statute should be invoked? Youre right that you cannot have somebody, a friend of mine, Jeff Sessions, who was on the campaign and who was an appointee, Issa told Maher. Youre going to need to use the special prosecutors statute and office.Heres the reason were going to have to do it, Bill, the congressman said. There may or may not be fault, but the American people are beginning to understand that Putin murders his enemies sometimes right in front of the Kremlin ... hes murdered people and taken down using cyber warfare in Georgia and Ukraine.This is a bad guy who murders people. Who runs a gas station with an economy the size of Italy but is screwing up things all over the world, that weve been, quote, working with.Now, we have to work with them. We dont have to trust them. And we need to investigate their activities, and we need to do it because they are bad people.It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.The Trump administration has enlisted senior members of the intelligence community and Congress in efforts to counter news stories about Trump associates ties to Russia, a politically charged issue that has been under Acting at the behest of the White House, the officials made calls to news organizations last week in attempts to challenge stories about alleged contacts between members of President Trumps campaign team and Russian intelligence operatives, U.S. officials said.The calls were orchestrated by the White House after unsuccessful attempts by the administration to get senior FBI officials to speak with news organizations and dispute the accuracy of stories on the alleged contacts with Russia.The White House on Friday acknowledged those interactions with the FBI but did not disclose that it then turned to other officials who agreed to do what the FBI would not  participate in White House-arranged calls with news organizations, including The Washington Post. Two of those officials spoke on the condition of anonymity  a practice President Trump has condemned.The officials broadly dismissed Trump associates contacts with Russia as infrequent and inconsequential. But the officials would not answer substantive questions about the issue, and their comments were not published by The Post and do not appear to have been reported elsewhere.White House spokesman Sean Spicer confirmed that the White House communicated with officials with the aim of contesting reporting on Russia, but maintained that the administration did nothing improper. When informed by the FBI that [the Russia-related reporting] was false, we told reporters who else they should contact to corroborate the FBIs version of the story, he said. The decision to involve those officials could be perceived as threatening the independence of U.S. spy agencies that are supposed to remain insulated from partisan issues, as well as undercutting the credibility of ongoing . Those officials saw their involvement as an attempt to correct coverage they believed to be erroneous.The effort also involved senior lawmakers with access to classified intelligence about Russia, including Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), the chairmen of the Senate and House intelligence committees. A spokesman for Nunes said that he had already begun speaking to reporters to challenge the story and that, at the request of a White House communications aide, Chairman Nunes then spoke to an additionalreporter and delivered the same message. In an interview, Burr acknowledged that he had conversations about Russia-related news reports with the White House and engaged with news organizations to dispute articles by the New York Times and CNN that alleged repeated or constant contact between Trump campaign members and Russian intelligence operatives.Ive had those conversations, Burr said, adding that he regarded the contacts as appropriate provided that I felt I had something to share that didnt breach my responsibilities to the committee in an ongoing investigation.The administrations push against the Russia coverage intensified Sunday when White House Chief of Staff  said in television interviews that he had been authorized by the top levels of the intelligence community to denounce reports on Trump campaign contacts with Russia as false.Priebuss denunciations ranged from calling the articles overstated to saying they were complete garbage.Administration officials said that Priebuss comments had been cleared by FBI Director James B. Comey and Deputy Director Andrew McCabe. In doing so, the FBIs leadership would appear to have been drawing a distinction between authorizing comments by a White House official and addressing the matter themselves. Mark Warner, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said he called CIA Director Mike Pompeo and Burr to express his grave concerns about what this means for the independence of the investigation.I am consulting with members of the Intelligence Committee to determine an appropriate course of action so we can ensure that the American people get the thorough, impartial investigation that they deserve, free from White House interference, Warner said in a statement Friday night.Rep. Adam B. Schiff (Calif.), the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, issued a statement Friday evening saying that if the White House contrived to have intelligence officials contradict unfavorable news reports, this represents a new and even more grave threat to the independence of the intelligence community.Former intelligence officials expressed concern over the blurring of lines between intelligence and politics, with some recalling Republican accusations that the Obama administration had twisted intelligence in its accounts of the 2012 attacks on U.S. facilities in Benghazi, Libya.I doubt that there was any enthusiasm from the intelligence leadership to get involved in this in the first place, former CIA director Michael Hayden said, noting that it seemed unlikely that Priebuss bluntly worded denials were consistent with the precise language favored by intelligence analysts.Think Benghazi here, Hayden said in an interview by email. This is what happens when the intel guys are leaned on for the narrative of the political speakers. The latter have different rules, words, purposes. Getting intel into that mix always ends unhappily, [and] it looks like we just did.The Trump administrations actions reflect its level of concern about coverage of its relationship with Russia. Trump has continued to praise Russian President Vladimir Putin, even after U.S. intelligence agencies concluded that Trump has also repeatedly disparaged the intelligence agencies that his administration last week turned to for support. Shortly before taking office, Trump accused U.S. spy agencies of a  to publicly knock down media reports about ties between Trump associates and Russian intelligence.Administration officials disputed the account, saying that rather than soliciting FBI feedback, Priebus had been pulled aside by McCabe on the morning of Feb.15 and told, I want you to know that the New York Times story is BS.White House officials declined to comment on the administrations subsequent effort to enlist other government officials and would not agree to allow the identification of the intelligence officials who had spoken to The Post last week. In separate calls, those individuals insisted on being identified only as a senior intelligence official in the Trump administration and a senior member of the intelligence community.In a brief interview on the night of Feb.15, the senior intelligence official said that the suggestion that there was frequent contact between Russians and Trump associates was false, describing any conversations as sporadic, limited and based on Russias interest in building a relationship with the future Trump administration rather than shaping the 2016 presidential race.The senior intelligence official appeared to be referring to contacts between Trumps designated national security adviser, Michael Flynn, and Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak before Trump was sworn in as president. Flynn was forced out of his job earlier this month after The Post reported that  against Russia with Kislyak and then misled Trump administration officials about the nature of his contacts.Officials at the CIA and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence declined to comment on whether senior officials at those agencies had discussed Russia coverage with the White House or been involved in efforts to refute stories on that subject.CIA Director Mike Pompeo is the senior-most intelligence official in the administration, with former senator Dan Coats (R-Ind.) still awaiting confirmation as director of national intelligence. in the House investigation of Benghazi, which centered on accusations that the Obama administration had twisted intelligence about the attacks for political purposes.It is not unusual for CIA leaders to have contact with news organizations, particularly about global issues such as terrorism or to contest news accounts of CIA operations. But involving the agency on alleged Trump campaign ties to Russia could be problematic.The CIA is not in charge of the investigation. Given the history of domestic espionage abuses in the United States, CIA officials are typically averse to being drawn into matters that involve U.S. citizens or might make the agency vulnerable to charges that it is politicizing intelligence.A U.S. intelligence official declined to discuss any Pompeo involvement except to say that he was not involved in drafting or approving statements for public use by the White House this past weekend on alleged Russian contacts.Whether there were such contacts remains a major point of contention. Beyond Flynn, the investigation has focused on other figures including , Trumps former campaign chairman, who had previously served as a paid political adviser to the Putin-backed president of Ukraine.U.S. intelligence reports cite multiple contacts between members of Trumps team and Russians with links to the Kremlin, during the campaign and afterward, according to officials who have seen them. Such reports were based on intercepted Russian communications and other sources, the officials said. Nunes, who served as a member of Trumps transition team, has resisted calls for his House committee to investigate alleged contacts between Trump associates and Russia. He said in an interview that after months of investigations, U.S. authorities have turned up no evidence of such contacts.delivery-guy contact, Nunes said, appearing to rule out even unwitting contact between Trump officials and Russian agents. Investigators, Nunes said, dont even have a lead.SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors arent staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.Perez immediately moved to appoint Ellison deputy DNC chair and accepted a hug from his rival on the conference room stage. Im asking you to give everything youve got to support Chairman Perez, Ellison told his supporters.Perez bashed Trump and the know-nothing movement, and vowed to lead Democrats to victory against the president in 2020.We are one family, and I know we will leave here united today, no doubt about that, Perez said. We are indeed the party that turns hardship into hope. We are the party that turns doubts into dreams.Jay Jacobs, a New York DNC member who whipped votes for Perez in the second round of voting, said some party leaders ultimately decided Ellison was too radical.You have to understand that on the emotional level, a lot of people liked Keiths message, and liked the idea of the dramatic change, said Jacobs, chair of the Nassau County Democratic Party on Long Island. On the more intellectual level, we had a sense  and I think this is what a lot of folks had a sense  that this would shift the party too far to the left. That was the back and forth.Other DNC members who backed Perez cited reasons unrelated to policy or ideology. Massachusetts DNC member David OBrien pointed to Perezs experience running large organizations and said he was impressed with Perez on a personal level, having heard from him repeatedly in recent weeks.The fact that [Perez]said he wanted to change the culture [at the DNC], the fact that he has campaigned at the local level, the fact that he has run an organization  and the way someone campaigns is instructive as to how they would govern, OBrien said.Idaho Democratic Party executive director Sally Boynton Brown, U.S. Air Force veteran Sam Ronan, media strategist Jehmu Greene and attorney Peter Peckarsky withdrew after the first round of voting on Saturday. Ronan and Peckarsky endorsed Ellison, while Greene threw her support to Perez. South Bend, Indiana,Mayor Pete Buttigieg dropped out just before voting began, without endorsing anyone.Shortly after Perezs victory, Obama issued a statement congratulating him. I know that Tom Perez will unite us under that banner of opportunity, and lay the groundwork for a new generation of Democratic leadership for this big, bold, inclusive, dynamic America we love so much, Obama said.fired back at Donald Trump on Saturday after the U.S. president remarked in a speech that a friend thought Paris is no longer Paris after attacks by Islamist militants.There is terrorism and we must fight it together. I think that it is never good to show the smallest defiance toward an allied country. I wouldnt do it with the United States and Im urging the U.S. president not to do it with France,I wont make comparisons but here, people dont have access to guns. Here, you dont have people with guns opening fire on the crowd simply for the satisfaction of causing drama and tragedy,During a speech at the Conservative Political Action Conference on Friday, Trump repeated his criticism of Europes handling of attacks by Islamist militants saying a friend Jim no longer wanted to take his family to Paris.More than 230 people have died in a series of assaults in France since the beginning of 2015, and the country has been under a state of emergency rules since November the same year. was inaugurated president, but its been more aspirational than descriptive. On Saturday, in a state Senate district in Delaware that stretches from Middletown to Newark, the voices in the streets turned into votes in the ballot box.In the most expensive special election in Delaware history  a contest to decide which party controls the state Senate  Democrat Stephanie Hansen was on track to annihilate her Republican rival on the back of extraordinary turnout.Thats more volunteers than Ive had in nine elections, exclaimed state Sen. Dave Sokola (D), of Hansens Election Day workers.The turnout of volunteers made a huge difference as Hansen crushed her Republican opponent with unusually high turnout for a special election.Lets take this movement national, former Vice President Joe Biden. a Delaware resident, exhorted to Hansen victory partiers Saturday night via phone.The Democratic campaign was both aided and hindered by weather. At an unseasonable 70 degrees it was a perfect day for volunteers to knock on doors and for voters to head out to the polls. An afternoon thunderstorm, however, cut an hour out of a prime time.Theres something fitting about so many New Yorkers making the trip down to make sure Marino didnt become a senator: He is, after all, a retired NYPD cop.