the-hindu
A few months after the launch of the National Food Security Act (NFSA) in the State, the public distribution system (PDS) authorities have quietly begun a give it up drive, covering all the essential commodities that are being provided at heavily subsidised rates.Though there is no formal announcement regarding the drive, any PDS beneficiary can give up all the commodities permanently or block them for a specified period by visiting the website (). One can open an online account, by registering with the website the details such as number of ration card, mobile phone, and Aadhaar. Aimed at about 1.91-crore rice-drawing cards, the give it up option covers not only rice, sugar, toor dhal, urad dhal and wheat, but also the Pongal gift pack. Meanwhile, since November [when the Act came into force] there have been complaints of non-availability or irregular supply of rice, even though officials in charge of fair price shops (FPS) are bound under the NFSA to ensure the provision of five kg of rice per month per person. The policy of the government is supply rice free of cost. A housewife, whose card is with a FPS in Kamarajapuram, near Tambaram, says, If you do not visit your shop within the first week, you will not get any thing from the ration. Pointing out that there is no such government rule, T. Sadagopan, president of the Tamil Nadu Progressive Consumers Centre, says that if and when rice is available, FPS officials would ordinarily give greater quantity of boiled rice than raw rice. A beneficiary, attached to FPS in Ram Nagar, Velachery, says even though his card has four members, he is being given only 15 kg rice against his quota of 20 kg as per the law. Besides, out of the 15 kg, the quantity of raw rice is five kg. There are also complaints that those who have not obtained any commodity have received messages on their mobile phones that billing has been done against their cards.The government, early this month, issued an order allowing the rice cardholders to get certain amount of wheat free of cost in lieu of rice. This has been done as the allocation of wheat for the State is 1.62 lakh tonnes out of the total annual allocation of 36.78 lakh tonnes, according to the government order. A senior official in the Food Department says the give it up drive has been prepared mainly to address the problem of bogus billing. Following complaints of bogus billing, officials of the shops have been strictly warned. Several punishment measures are being contemplated, he says, adding that people can send complaints of bogus billing to 9980904040 by typing PDS (space) 107.As for the complaints on non-availability or irregular supply of rice, a system is in place to monitor the movement of rice. Wherever rice is required, we are moving the stock, the official says.
Printable version | Feb 26, 2017 7:56:29 AM | http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/pds-beneficiaries-cango-for-give-it-up-option/article17368769.ece
An unusually large number of hysterectomies performed in Kalaburagi district of Karnataka has led to a State government probe, and an order suspending the licenses of four hospitals. During a 30-month period, the four institutions are said to have removed the uterus of women, often without medical justification and allegedly for entirely commercial reasons. A spate of complaints prompted the State government to form an expert committee, headed by A. Ramachandra Bairy in October 2015. Its investigation found that 2,258 hysterectomy procedures were done in 30 months in Kalaburagi district. The four hospitals at the centre of the probe  Girish Noola Surgical & Maternity Hospital, Basava Hospital, L.M Care Hospital, and Sudha Memorial Smruti Maternity & Surgical Nursing Home  were probed for alleged violation of various provisions of the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments Act (KPME) 2007 and Rules, 2009. Based on the inquiry, Deputy Commissioner Ujjwal Kumar Ghosh suspended the licences of Noola hospital in November 2016, and the other three hospitals on January 10, 2017, for six months. Mr. Ghosh wrote to the Karnataka Medical Council (KMC) on January 23, 2017, recommending disciplinary action against Dr. Girish Noola and Dr. Smita Noola, who conducted over 600 hysterectomies in two years, in alleged violation of law and professional ethics. The KMC has yet to take a call on this.The surgeries have left young mothers in Belamagi Lambani tanda of Aland taluk in Kalaburagi district, in rural Karnataka in a daze. Pinku Bai married at 13, had three children by 19, and underwent a hysterectomy at 24 because her doctor warned her of serious health complications due to a swollen uterus. Severe abdominal pain and vaginal discharge had prompted her to seek medical help. With the dire warning of the Big C leading to death ringing in her ears, she underwent a hysterectomy in November 2014, paying 30,000 with money borrowed from relatives. Today, wiping away tears, Pinku Bai says, I agreed to the surgery as I kept thinking, what would happen to my children if I were to die? But the procedure did not end her difficulties. She developed severe backache, weakness, prolonged tiredness, chest pain, and partial vision loss.Many young women of the Lambani community and the Golla community went under the knife. Illiteracy, poverty and unethical doctors making a fast buck have pushed the Pinku Bais to undergo unnecessary hysterectomies, health activists say. In Arsikere and Kadur taluks, Chitradurga, Davangere and Tumakuru districts, in Chincholi, Aland, Chittapur and Jevargi taluks of Kalaburagi, Yadgir and Raichur districts, there are many stories of women approaching gynaecologists with complaints of bleeding, nagging abdominal pain, or a simple urinary tract infection, only to return home without a uterus. Omkaramma, 30, of Kolagunda gollarahatti in Hassan, had a hysterectomy four years ago after just one consultation. She was ready to do anything to get rid of the excruciating pain. Three other women from the same village were operated upon the same day. One of them died three months later. Lalitha Bais medical examination pointed to a urinary tract infection. Noola Hospital in Kalaburagi told me I would die soon, and convinced me to have a hysterectomy. I was operated upon even though we had no money. But I was discharged only after we paid  25,000, she recalled. Post-surgery, her infection persists and she spends hard-earned money buying drinking water, hoping it would help. In most cases, the hysterectomies were performed without a prior medical examination, save for a sonography, the government inquiry committee found. KJC activists and victims allege that the doctors identified by the probe are continuing with unwarranted hysterectomies. They demand the cancellation of the registration of the doctors and booking of criminal cases against them. They are also demanding suitable compensation for the victims.A survey of 35 tandas (habitations) done by the KJC claims the ratio of households to hysterectomies is high. In Ambalaga tanda, Kalaburagi, it was 55 households to 15 hysterectomies; in Ajjanahalli, Hassan district, it was 40:13; at V.K. Salagar tanda it was 40:25; and in Belamagi tanda, 80:25. A Health Department survey in 2015 found 371 cases in the gollarahattis (hamlets) in Arsikere taluk, Hassan district.Teena Xavier, a KJC health activist, said the hospitals capitalise on the ignorance of the women. Umarga in Osmanabad district in Maharashtra, has also emerged as a hysterectomy hub and gets patients from border villages in Kalaburagi district.On why the health issue has snowballed, Roopa Hassan, writer and social activist said: Its largely due to unhygienic customs that women are forced to adopt in the gollarahattis. During menstruation, they have to stay away from their homes, in a shelter which is not clean. Many find hysterectomy a relief from this monthly ordeal. Doctors capitalise on this. Those who performed hysterectomy for flimsy reasons actually violated the sexual and reproductive health rights of women. I have spoken to many women and none had a biopsy or pap smear done before having the uterus removed.Concurring with this, R. Venkatesh, a gynaecologist and District Health Officer in Hassan, says, Hysterectomy should be done as the last option when all other medications fail to control abnormal bleeding, infection, and fibroids, and that too after conducting a biopsy, pap smear, and other examinations. Another inquiry committee constituted by the Karnataka State Commission for Women in September 2015, headed by social activist K. Neela, investigated the issue in Kalaburagi district and submitted a 105-page report in April 2016. We have provided sufficient and solid evidence to prosecute the doctors and hospitals involved. Yet, no action has been taken, she says.The expert committee constituted by the State Health Department headed by T.R. Sudha found that Dr. Dayanand, a government doctor at Biruru Community Health Centre in Chikkamagaluru, conducted 1,428 unnecessary hysterectomies at a private establishment between 2012 and 2014. More than 40% of the women who underwent the surgery were below the age of 35. A CID inquiry is under way even after two years. The only action taken up was the transfer of the doctor from Birur to Davangere. The hospitals in question dismiss the allegations. We never performed unwarranted hysterectomies on innocent people. On the contrary, people who were afraid of cancer themselves forced us to conduct the surgery despite our advice against it. We used to give medicines for their ailments and advise them to wait for 3-4 months. When they were persistent, we had to perform the surgery, Dr. Sambashivarao, Managing Director, Sudha Memorial Smruti Maternity & Surgical Nursing Home told No hysterectomy was done at his hospital during the past 11 months. After his hospitals registration was cancelled, he got a new registration under the name of Sudha Memorial Smruti General & Surgical Nursing Home. I am deeply hurt at being defamed. This is the gift that I am honoured with, at the age of 75, for serving the people for 48 years. I wont approach the court. If I am given four months, I will just wind up the hospital and leave the city forever, he added. Dr. Smita Noola, who has moved the Karnataka High Court against the Deputy Commissioners order suspending the registration of her hospital, refused to comment.
Printable version | Feb 26, 2017 7:59:09 AM | http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/high-on-hysterectomies-losing-wombs-to-medical-malpractice/article17368093.ece

Fare wars of app-based taxi services have eroded the first-mover advantage of drivers now desperate to make ends meet

At least 10 devotees were injured when a 65-foot wooden temple car taken out as part of an annual car festival, overturned in Kottur, a pilgrim town i
As the smuggling networks strengthen, India continues to bear the ignominy of being the source of the illegal trade and export of tortoises and freshwater turtles (TFT). The detection of a staggering 58,442 smuggled amphibians over five years, demonstrates the persistence of the illegal trade despite increasing enforcement, reveals the recently-conducted study by researchers from Freeland India and Turtle Survival Alliance. in its March 2017 issue, finds that 14 species were being commercially harvested  nine more in 1993, when a similar study was conducted. This is just the tip of the iceberg, and the actual seizures could be much higher. Since there is no centralised data, we started keeping data from 2016. During this time, an additional 30,000 live individuals were seized in the country, a majority from the Gangetic plains, said Shailendra Singh, Programme Director of Turtle Survival Alliance, and co-author of the study. Researchers perused 223 reported seizures by authorities between 2011-15. Most of the seizures were in India, while the rest were from Bangladesh, Thailand and China. Of the amphibians seized, the turtles were established as having come from India. Within India, the Gangetic Plains accounted for 46% of all seizures, with Lucknow and Kanpur being major hubs. Researchers said this was linked to tightening of the enforcement (including an active Special Task Force) in Uttar Pradesh and the Gangetic belt. There is a tradition of turtle poaching in this area given the diversity of TFT population along the river. Apart from the Ganga and its tributaries, TFTs have been poached in rivers of the Western Ghats and, in smaller numbers, in the Eastern Ghats. The cities of Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata have seen large-scale seizures, suggesting accumulation before export, the researchers said. While domestic consumption of turtle meat in West Bengal and Bangladesh continues, it is the international export to south-east Asian countries and China that rake in profits for smugglers. The species are poached by fishermen in streams, ponds and rivers. Very rarely are the traded species bred  they are mostly taken from the wild. It reaches middlemen who have strong networks to smuggle them across international borders. Turtles and tortoises are taken in trucks, buses and trains towards Bangladesh or through airports to south-east Asia, said Uttara Mendiratta, who along with colleague Vallari Sheel from Freeland India, authored the report. While enforcement has become stricter, the ease of transporting thousands of turtle hatchlings in bags has led the trade to continue unhindered. Earlier this year, 6,430 endangered turtles were found stuffed in large bags at Amethi in Uttar Pradesh. On the persistence of the trade and expanding list of species being poached, Ms Mendiratta says, In the meat markets in Bangladesh, there is indiscriminate poaching now as long as the turtles caught can be consumed. In the pet trade of SE Asia and China, there is an increasing diversity of species that is being sold from India. Before, it was primarily Star Tortoises. But now, the numbers of species such as Spotted Pond Turtle are on the rise.Turtles form an important part of the riverine system, acting as scavengers in cleaning up water bodies and generally being indicators of river health. Ironically, the National Mission for Clean Ganga envisages breeding and release of turtles to clean wetlands, even as poaching and trade continues across the Gangetic belt. 
Printable version | Feb 26, 2017 7:57:04 AM | http://www.thehindu.com/sci-tech/energy-and-environment/though-the-net-tightens-india-remains-hub-for-turtle-trade/article17369587.ece

The environment was a big issue in Goas recent Assembly election. Hartman de Souza bares the rot eating away its heart
When three-year-old Aminika, a Belgian Malinois, died sniffing out explosives earlier this year in Maoist-affected Jharkhand, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) ensured that a proper burial was organised for the brave dog. Aminika was given an 18-gun salute, her coffin was draped in the national flag and a memorial stone detailing her operational achievements were placed near the burial site. During her two-year stint, Aminika had detected over 50 kg of explosives, which included cane bombs and mines, the memorial stone said. The CRPF, the largest force deployed for anti-Maoist operations in the Red Corridor spanning over 10 States, wants to ensure their dogs are also extended the same respect as a jawan killed in action.With a rise in the number of trained Belgian Malinois sent to the Red Corridor, the CRPF has finalised a protocol to be followed in case one of the canines loses its life in the line of duty. The Belgian Malinois were first introduced in the Red Corridor in 2013 and currently 284 dogs are deployed. Another 45 are under training. An official explained that Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) were the biggest concern for the security forces who go for patrolling or operations in the dense interiors and dogs come in handy by sniffing them out. The standard operating procedure (SOP) was devised last year amid rising number of injuries to CRPF dogs. This year, two trained dogs  Animika and Pluto  were killed in Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh respectively.  After serving the nation for their entire productive life, the dog deserves dignified last rites in consonance with a valiant forces traditions. This document is an attempt to prescribe a protocol to bring some level of uniformity in honouring these trusted companions when they finally end their vigilant watch over our lives and freedoms, the protocol says.The SOP says the dogs be buried to reduce the likelihood of intentional or accidental desecration of their remains. For the burial, the remains should be first enclosed in coffin and burial should take place as quick as possible, the SOP said. In case the deceased dog had been awarded a medal for operational excellence, it would be handed over to the handler who will in turn send it to the Dog Breeding and Training Centre in Taralu, Karnataka, where it would be displayed in a gallery, said the SOP.An 18-gun salute to be performed in a normal regimented fashion. It is both permissible and appropriate at all ceremonies to play Taps (a bugle call) for a fallen dog. The dogs leash, collar and an inverted food bowl signifying the bond with the handler should be placed at the grave. A granite slab measuring 28 X 18 be placed as a memorial stone at the burial site, the SOP said. 
Printable version | Feb 26, 2017 7:57:25 AM | http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/a-gun-salute-for-the-fallen-canine/article17368364.ece

The government is keen on appointing a single-point military adviser within the year to promote synergy among the Services. The issue was discussed i
Publish yourself recently assumed a different meaning, when visitors to a street book fair in Thiruvananthapuram turned contributors, their impromptu writings were turned into books as the event concluded.Ninety-year-old Balakrishna Kurup never expected his jottings to become part of the book, which opened with a print run of 1,000 copies. He found himself in the company of 80 others, most of them casual visitors, including school students and amateur writers. The group got published in  (Street) which was conceived, written, designed, published and released on Manaveeyam Street, the cultural corridor of Keralas capital and a regular venue for folk art and street plays.The entire publication happened over the course of four days, during the Street Book Fair organised by the city Corporation. At one end, after all the book stalls, was a small stall with just a book and a pen on a table, and a laptop on another. Visitors were invited to write down their contributions  stories, poems, drawings or articles. The idea was to create a book from the street. The only condition was that the work should be spontaneous.Behind the whole idea was Manaveeyam Theruvora Koottam (Manaveeyam Street Collective), which organises weekly cultural events.The book draws much from the character of Manaveeyam Street, where anyone can come and perform, without being judged. So, we thought the book should also be open to anyone. We have included most of the contributions that we got from the street. No particular subject was given to the visitors. But, there is a running thread of the street spirit that you can see in most of the works, says T.D. Kuriyachan, who came up with the idea. The book, therefore, carries everything from a lament for the saplings on the road suffering from climate change to an art sketch of the thoroughfare. There are personal reflections, of love, loss and pain. There is even a short sarcastic poem on literary circles turning into mutual admiration clubs.As the visitors penned their thoughts, standing on the street, youth quickly worked on the layouts and designs for each page. The editing work was also taken up. The cover image by artist Sajitha Sankar is also street-inspired.
Printable version | Feb 26, 2017 7:58:36 AM | http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/selfpublishing-in-an-instant/article17369614.ece
Hate crime: CPI(M) activists burn Donald Trumps effigy during a protest in Vijayawada on Saturday.

Two days after an Indian engineer was murdered and another injured in an apparent case of racial-related violence, the White House on Friday rejected the suggestion that the incident may have been caused by the anti-immigration climate created by President Donald Trump.Asked whether the rhetoric that the President or that generally has been out here recently could have contributed in any way to the murder of 32-year-old Srinivas Kuchibhotla in Kansas on Wednesday night, White House press secretary Sean Spicer said: I mean, obviously, any loss of life is tragic, but Im not going to get into, like, that kind of  to suggest that theres any correlation, I think, is a bit absurd. So Im not going to go any further than that.President Donald Trump did not tweet on the Kansas attack even after it was prominently covered across U.S. media platforms even as he responded to gun violence in Chicago the same evening with a tweet: Seven people shot and killed yesterday in Chicago. What is going on there  totally out of control. Chicago needs help! Meanwhile, Indian Ambassador to the U.S. Navtej Sarna told an audience that included 27 U.S. State Governors on Friday evening that India was confident that American administrators would take necessary measures to ensure that such incidents were not repeated.In a first-of-its-kind diplomatic initiative, Mr. Sarna hosted Governors from both the Republican and Democratic parties, which he said was a demonstration of the bipartisan support for India-U.S. bilateral relations. I am sure all right-thinking people in America will work together and ensure that this tragic event is behind us, Mr. Sarna said. Eric Holcomb, Republican Governor of Indiana, who recently succeeded Mike Pence, after the latter became the Vice President, told Several U.S. lawmakers and civil rights groups condemned the incident and blamed the rhetoric and administrative actions by Mr. Trump for the atmosphere of racial hostility in the country.We cant let hatred win, said Indian-American Senator from California Kamala Harris. Senseless acts of violence have no place in our country. Im heartbroken by this tragedy, said Pramila Jayapal, Democratic Congresswoman from Washington State. She said hate crimes were rising as a result of Trump administrations ideas against immigrants. California Congressman Ro Khanna said: Any act of violence fuelled by hatred and xenophobia and prejudice cannot be tolerated. I have faith in local and federal law enforcement to justly investigate this shooting as a hate crime. Illinois Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi, California Republican Brad Sherman and Pennsylvania Republican Scott Perry also condemned the incident. This was an attack not only on the victims, but on the sense of security of Indians, Indian-Americans, and millions of other people of colour across the nation, said Mr. Krishnamoorthi.While details continue to emerge, if true, we expect the governmental authorities to prosecute this act for what it is  a hate crime, the South Asian Bar Association said in a statement. This incident is the latest in a rising tide of hate violence against South Asian, Muslim, Sikh, Hindu, Middle Eastern and Arab communities, electrified by the presidents anti-immigrant policies, stated Suman Raghunathan, executive director of South Asian-Americans Leading Together (SAALT), a civil rights group.Meanwhile, wife of the deceased Srinivas Kuchibhotla said she had discussed the idea of returning to India many times with her husband, but said he  on an H-1B guest worker visa  was keen to remain in America. I need an answer; I need an answer from the government. I need an answer for everyone out there, Sunayana Dumala said during a media interaction organised by Garmin, the company that employed Kuchibhotla. Not just for my husband ... but for everyone, all those people of any raceI need an answer, she said. 
Printable version | Feb 26, 2017 7:57:58 AM | http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/trump-silent-on-racist-killing/article17368303.ece

In March, at the annual conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) Mr. Trump had promised to shift the embassy to Jerusalem.
Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday criticised the Delhi police for their handling of clashes at Delhi Universitys Ramjas college earlier this week and alleged that the force has become an agent for Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad and BJP goons.I strongly condemn the manner in which the Delhi police have become an agent of the ABVP and the BJP. It is the duty of the police to protect the people of Delhi and not allow the ABVP and the BJP to engage in goondaism (sic), he told reporters at a press briefing. Holding Prime Minister Narendra Modi responsible for the manner in which the Delhi police were allowed to behave, Mr. Kejriwal said: I hope the PM will perform his duty in an impartial way and not work like a BJP worker. Mr. Modi is not the PM of the BJP only but of all people, including me, and he should perform his duty, Mr. Kejriwal said, adding that the Delhi police should be held accountable for the February 22 violence. On Wednesday, Ramjas College witnessed clashes between members of the Left-affiliated AISA and the RSS-backed ABVP. The genesis of the clash was an invite to JNU students Umar Khalid and Shehla Rashid to address a seminar on Culture of Protests, which was withdrawn by the college authorities following opposition by the ABVP. The Delhi police have acknowledged unprofessional conduct on the part of some of its personnel during the clash and suspended three policemen. 
Printable version | Feb 26, 2017 7:59:24 AM | http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/delhi-police-are-abvp-agents-alleges-kejriwal/article17369550.ece

The government is keen on appointing a single-point military adviser within the year to promote synergy among the Services. The issue was discussed i
Addressing a well-attended election rally here on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi sought to reassure the people of Manipur that there was nothing in the Naga Peace Accord  signed by his government with the NSCN-IM in 2015  that would go against the interests of the State.Mr. Modis assurance follows Chief Minister Okram Ibobi Singh's statement, asking why the precise terms of the agreement have been kept secret by the Centre.This accord happened a year-and-a-half back. I told Congress leaders what was in it. And today they are dividing Manipuri people. Will you accept the lies of the 15-year corrupt Congress regime or the truth of the Prime Minister who has served you honestly for two-and-a-half years, Mr. Modi asked the crowd.There is not a word in that agreement that can be construed as harmful to Manipuri interests, he added.Hiting out at the Ibobi Singh government for failing to maintain the supply of essential services following the economic blockade of the State by Naga students, Mr. Modi said, Is it not the State government's duty to maintain supply of essential commodities? As per the Constitution, this is the responsibility of the Manipur government and the police. What kind of government is it, under which there is a blockade and children do not even get milk?We will not let the blockade continue once our government comes to power in the State, the Prime Minister said.He accused the Congress of instigating people as well as paying those who organise bandhs. Mr. Modi added that a government that kept people hungry to win polls did not have the right to rule even for a minute.Mr. Modi defended the November demonetisation drive, saying his government was bringing out hidden money from 70 years of loot in the country and criticised Congress leaders for speaking against him after the note ban.Rest assured that I will take back the looted money. It can be used for work aimed at the poor, he said.
Printable version | Feb 26, 2017 7:56:45 AM | http://www.thehindu.com/elections/manipur-2017/naga-deal-will-not-hurt-manipur-modi/article17369561.ece
Here is a thought experiment. Say, the powers that be who govern India have decided that we, the people, are in need of a new national anthem. More importantly, you, the reader of this page, have been asked to write the words. The conditions proposed are simple but open-ended: the words must be jargon- and euphemism-free, the lines must arouse a feeling of the collective but also be spacious enough for our private imaginations to wander, and ultimately, the words must neither coerce identities nor elevate one group of people over another. And yes, it must be short.This now, when you think about it, is a mighty difficult task: to write words that can soar and yet remain grounded. More than the melody and gravitas, the real challenge is to speak to a diversity in a country without being treacly and melodramatic. In essence, while acts of patriotism are probably easier to identify, finding the right kind of language to describe patriotism is hard. Conversely, harder still is knowing what exactly is this patriotism that our language seeks to describe?Even Rabindranath Tagore, who was ever suspicious of false gods and whose lines are now deemed as part of our sacred obligation by the Supreme Court no less, was suspicious of patriotism from above. In his now little-read collection of essays on nationalism, Tagore writes that neither the colourless vagueness of cosmopolitanism, nor the fierce self-idolatory of nation-worship is the goal of human history. Man, he thought, is not born to worship his nation, far less offer an uncritical fealty to the symbols that exalt the idea of that nationhood. Yet one of the great mysteries of our lives in the 21st century is how the idea of a nation, or of a bureaucratic state, becomes the carapace inside which our adult emotional lives are spent. Most of us cant imagine our lives without a nationality to anchor ourselves to. Man may not be an island, but he is an islet in an archipelago of affiliations  connected yet separate. Even refugees, who sometimes save themselves at the expense of their peers, insist on a membership in the very same collective that now lies in fragments. Patriotism, or a form of commitment to the nation, in essence, howsoever disfigured its patrimonial legacies have often been, is here to stay.These questions of patriotism burble up yet again now because the Attorney General, Mukul Rohatgi, has deemed that a debate on mandatory anthem singing in schools is necessary. Further, he proposes to review, and perhaps re-litigate, the 30-year-old exception from singing the anthem granted to the adherents of Jehovahs Witnesses. This plan is in spite of an overburdened judicial system, ostensibly because according to Mr. Rohatgi, it is extremely important to instil a sense of nationalism from childhood. For an officer of the state  a post-colonial state, no less, surrounded by inimical neighbours and marked by inflexible citizens citing transcendental claims  it is understandable that sacralising the nation seems natural, even attractive.But this attitude forgets that nations dont grow fonder in our hearts, far less elicit sacrifices or foster cohesion from citizens because of state-mandated daily ounces of patriotism in our schools. On the contrary, what we see world over is that strong states are marked by norms of collegiality and traditions of respect and dissent towards symbols of our collective union, not legally enforceable mandates with the threat of punishment. Dismissing a West Virginia state law that previously demanded Jehovahs Witnesses recite the Pledge of Allegiance, Justice Robert Jackson of the U.S. Supreme Court wrote in 1943 that to believe that patriotism will not flourish if patriotic ceremonies are voluntary and spontaneous, instead of a compulsory routine, is to make an unflattering estimate of the appeal of our institutions to free minds.This is something our democratic government must also remember. Worse yet, coercing the singing of the national anthem, a song of our collective freedoms, a testimony to the affirmations of gratitude and joy by our ancestors will paradoxically be associated by our children with an unfreedom no different than the tedium of multiplication tables and the tyranny of eating vegetables. We dont, after all, legally mandate either of those two.
Printable version | Feb 26, 2017 7:59:26 AM | http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/columns/a-song-of-our-collective-freedoms-an-act-of-unfreedom/article17367709.ece
Spot fixing is back in the news. Three players in the Pakistan Super League have been suspended, others questioned. There is an uncomfortable feeling that it never went away but merely got more sophisticated, with the offenders staying one step ahead of the detectors.For India, what is worrying is not that anybody has been caught recently, but that even if one had been, there is no law yet to deal with such cases. When the law is no deterrent, temptations are more attractive, and risk-takers are more willing to play (or not) for a few dollars more. You cannot, of course, legislate against human greed, but you can make it less profitable to give in to it.At the turn of this century, Indian cricket went through the trauma of the National skipper and a few of his colleagues being banned for match-fixing.Despite the national outrage, it was seen as a victimless crime: no one was injured, none killed. What was destroyed  briefly  was faith, an important element that moves mountains and is the essence of competitive sport.Match-fixing wasnt a crime in India, and players caught had to be tried under the provisions of cheating. It was important, said commentators, experts, Parliamentarians, law enforcement authorities, to pass a law dealing specifically with fixing in sport.Yet, more than a decade and a half later, we have no such law. If a player were to be caught spot fixing today, he would most probably get away with it because of this.To try Sreesanth under the dreaded MCOCA (Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act) was both desperate and futile. He was, naturally, cleared under that law, and equally naturally, went about saying he had been cleared of spot fixing. You cannot be guilty of a crime that does not exist in the system.Following the 2013 spot fixing scandal, the trial judge discharged all 36 accused saying the offence pertains to betting and match-fixing which does not fit in any penal statute.Earlier, in 2012, Mohammad Azharuddin was cleared by the Andhra Pradesh High Court. But the court had merely said that the BCCI ban was unfair, not that the player was innocent of match-fixing, something he had confessed to, according to the CBI report.Every time such a scandal erupts, there is much breast-beating. Why dont we have a law? Why cant offenders be jailed? How can we allow this desecration of the sanctity of sport? Editorials are written, experts go on television panels asking these and other questions.Meanwhile the Prevention of Sporting Fraud Bill (2013) which had fixed jail terms and fines for match fixing has already dropped out of the public consciousness. The current government which had pushed for its passage when it was in the opposition seems to have abandoned it.The Bill personally affects politicians of all parties who are office bearers in the various State and National sports bodies. The age and tenure limitations (now successfully adapted by the Lodha Committee in cricket) ensured that.The 2013 Bill proposed to create sporting fraud as a special category of offence, which included the manipulation of result, deliberate under-performance, disclosure of inside information, and failure to report an offence. The average follower of sports might welcome these steps to criminalise match-fixing. In 2015 the Bill went to the Cabinet for consideration. And that was that.A rehash of that bill, the National Sports Ethics Commission Bill, was introduced in 2016, but its wider sweep and possibly incomplete definitions and somewhat disproportionate punishments might make its progress difficult.But within these attempts and earlier ones like the Prevention of Dishonesty in Sports Bill (2001) lie the kernel of a specific bill aimed at criminalising fixing in sport.There have been attempts to move sports from the State list to the concurrent list, a move that was hailed in 1988 when it was first proposed. That bill, however, was withdrawn in 2009. Last year the Sports Minister garnered the support of the national sports federations and later the sports ministers in the States and we may be closer to such a shift than at any time in the recent past.It will allow for a certain uniformity in sports administration in the country, a move that has become increasingly important thanks to the rise in sports sponsorships as well as the jump in television revenues.It might also help in the acceptance of a sports fraud bill aimed at dealing with match fixing (there is no moral difference with spot fixing).At its simplest, any attempt to manipulate a sports result, irrespective of whether the outcome is altered or not as the 2013 Bill says, ought to result in a jail term.Details can be worked out. But the broad picture needs to be pursued. Indian cricket has been embarrassed too many times for the problem of fixing to be ignored. We have waited long enough.
Printable version | Feb 26, 2017 7:57:57 AM | http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/long-wait-for-law-against-spot-fixing-continues/article17348686.ece
