the-washington-post
It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.Former labor secretary Thomas Perez was elected the first Latino chair of the Democratic National Committee on Saturday, narrowly defeating Rep. Keith Ellison (D-Minn.) at the end of a contentious battle over the fate of the beleaguered party in the age of President Trump.Perezs victory concluded the first contested race for the DNC leadership since 1985, a contest the party had extended by a month to allow more debate. It put in place the Democratic leadership that will navigate thousands of state and local elections  where the party hopes to reverse the losses of the past six years  and a 2020 presidential race that could divide the party again.Ellisons defeat was a blow to the partys liberal wing, personified by activists, labor leaders and organizers, many of whom had supported the presidential bid of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and had come to Atlanta to cheer Ellison on. Many of them warned that by picking Perez, the party was alienating the growing resistance that has organized against Trump.The race was close enough that it required a second round of balloting, with Perez winning 235 of 435 votes cast. With tensions still high as the result was announced, nine Ellison supporters chanted Party for the people, not big money! and stormed out of the room.Someday, theyre going to study this era of American history, Perez said after his win. Theyre going to ask the question of all of us: Where were you in 2017 when we had the worst president in the history of the United States? We will be able to say that the Democratic Party led the resistance and made sure this was a one-term president.Onstage, Perez gave Ellison the symbolic role of deputy party chair, and the Minnesota congressman gave a short speech asking his supporters to stay with the party and avoid recriminations.Hillary Clinton, the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee, tweeted her support for both Perez and Ellison as representatives of a unified party, while former president Barack Obama congratulated my friend Perez in a statement.I know that Tom Perez will unite us under that banner of opportunity, and lay the groundwork for a new generation of Democratic leadership for this big, bold, inclusive, dynamic America we love so much, Obama said.Sanders, who had supported Ellison, said in a statement that it was imperative that Tom understands that the same-old, same-old is not working and that we must open the doors of the party to working people and young people in a way that has never been done before.Trump, in classic fashion, responded to the election by simultaneously congratulating and belittling Perez in a tweet: I could not be happier for him, or for the Republican Party!The vote itself was tense. On Friday night, Democrats gathered at a downtown Westin hotel here in Atlanta to meet, drink and lobby for votes, and the Ellison campaign  along with allies of South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg, a third candidate  battled rumors that Perez might already have locked up the votes he needed.But by Saturday morning, it was clear that the race was up for grabs. Buttigieg used his nomination speech to quit the race, endorsing no candidate. As most of the 439 DNC members present cast their votes  eight eligible members did not attend  several DNC members got a text from the Ellison camp saying the congressman was grateful to have the support of Mayor Buttigieg, an endorsement that the mayor denied.In the first round of balloting, Perez won 213.5 votes to 200 for Ellison, 12 for Idaho Democratic Party Executive Director Sally Boynton Brown, 0.5 for Democratic strategist Jehmu Greene and one for Buttigieg in the first round of balloting. Greene endorsed Perez, while two fringe candidates who had won no votes backed Ellison. Members who are abroad get half a vote.Perezs victory did not represent a Democratic shift to the right. On key issues, Perezs platform mostly resembled Ellisons. Perez promised to refocus on small donors and online fundraising; Ellison set a goal for low-dollar contributions from everyday Americans [to] account for 33percent of revenue. Ellison called for an Innovation Hub in Silicon Valley; Perez promoted DNC fellowships to encourage developers, programmers, data scientists, [and] engineers.While Perez and Ellison praised each other personally, the race was defined for outsiders by Sanderss support of the Minnesota lawmaker. Ellison was one of the few members of Congress who had backed Sanders for president. He billed himself as the unity candidate who would keep Sanderss restive supporters in the party while embracing those who had backed Clinton.In the first weeks after Ellison declared his candidacy, the strategy seemed to be working, despite some hiccups. Labor unions that had endorsed Clinton, such as the American Federation of Teachers and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, got behind Ellison.Howard Dean, the most successful DNC chair in modern party history, dropped his plans to run again when Ellison said he would resign from Congress if elected to the full-time job. Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), who had frequently clashed with Dean over strategy and investments, endorsed Ellison and defended the first Muslim member of Congress against charges of anti-Semitism.But veterans of the Obama administration, where Perez had been a popular liberal force, encouraged the former labor secretary to run  and starting Dec.15, he did. In progressive media, the race was frequently covered as a clash between the establishment and the revolution that had been proved right by the 2016 election. That was not how most DNC members chose to see it. In public forums, including the final one broadcast on CNN, Ellison and Perez declined to criticize each other. While progressive media outlets accused Perez of protecting the partys consultant class, DNC members who broke for Perez said that he had convinced them that he knew what state parties needed.Tom seemed to have a better handle on the job, said Kathy Sullivan, a former chair of New Hampshires Democratic Party, who endorsed Perez after current New Hampshire state chair Ray Buckley quit the race.Perez was also helped by a string of endorsements from Obama administration veterans  although, as Ellison backers noticed, he did not win any high-profile supporters of Sanderss to compete with Ellisons endorsements from Clintonites. The Feb.1 endorsement of Perez by former vice president Joe Biden, one of the partys most beloved figures, prompted Sanders to criticize Perez for the first time.Do we stay with a failed status-quo approach or do we go forward with a fundamental restructuring of the Democratic Party? Sanders asked in a statement after Bidens endorsement. I say we go forward and create a grassroots party which speaks for working people and is prepared to stand up to the top one percent. Most of the DNCs membership  just 39 of whom had backed Sanders for president in 2016  did not view the contest as a stark ideological clash. Sanders supporters, including Ellison, had largely succeeded in moving the partys platform to the left. In interviews, some acknowledged that there would be walkouts by Sanders die-hards in their states, but they argued that the daily outrages around Trump might bring them back into the process.That confidence was on display Saturday before the vote for chairman. DNC members debated whether to strike language from Californias Christine Pelosi, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosis daughter, that would have restored a ban on corporate donations to the DNC. The prohibition was quietly rolled back during the controversial tenure of the previous elected DNC chair, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.)This resolution has nothing to do with nonprofit organizations, said Larry Cohen, a former president of the Communications Workers of America who backed Sanders in 2016. This is to send a message, loud and clear, that the DNC itself  not candidates, not state parties  will restore the ban that President Obama put into effect.When the language was struck, a few of the activists who had come to cheer Ellison  including members of National Nurses United, Progressive Democrats of America and Democratic Socialists of America  started a brief chant.SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors arent staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.Seven years after the passage of the Affordable Care Act, Democrats seem finally to have secured a crucial element for its preservation: a robust grass-roots movement supporting it.Pro-ACA protesters attended more than 100 rallies held Saturday across the country, organized by an activist group affiliated with Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.). That followed a congressional recess week during which GOP lawmakers were confronted by defenders of the health-care law in town hall meetings across the country. Numerous Democratic officeholders also held events touting the laws successes.The surge in activism comes as congressional Republicans prepare to take their next steps toward repealing the ACA, also known as Obamacare, and replacing it with what they say will be a more free-market-oriented system that is expected to cost the government less but cover fewer Americans.The new mobilization represents a stark reversal of the recent political dynamics around health care. Until now, conservative activists have occupied the spotlight and relentlessly pushed Republicans to undo Obamacare, while Democrats and liberal groups largely stayed on the sidelines.There is a serious grass-roots element to this that previously the establishment Democrats didnt really tap into, said Julienne Gede Edwards, a 28-year-old Maryland attorney and colon cancer survivor, who attended a rally in Washington on Saturday and carried a sign calling on Republican lawmakers to lay out a health-care plan: Youve Had 7 Years  Lets Hear It!Edwards added: I dont necessarily fault them for that. But I do think that now they are seeing that that energy is there, and that the grass-roots movement is working and is getting actual results.In Washington, several hundred protesters gathered Saturday afternoon on Capitol Hill, rallying in front of a deserted House office building before marching down Pennsylvania Avenue to the Trump International Hotel and on to the White House.The crowd roared when Lance Christopher, a 29-year-old volunteer organizer, referred to President Trump and his chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, as fascists.If you think you can go to Starbucks, drink your lattes and life will go on as normal ... you are sadly mistaken, Christopher told the crowd. These people are here, and they mean business, and we have to be as equally motivated.The event was one of more than 100 rallies planned for Saturday, many of them organized under the banner of Our Revolution  the grass-roots activist group that inherited staff and supporters from Sanderss insurgent presidential campaign.Had a pro-ACA rally been called several years ago, I dont think many people would have shown up, Christopher said in an interview.I think theres sort of a comfortability in the fact that your party occupies the White House, or even the Senate and House, he said. And when the tea party movement pushed Republicans to repeal the law, We sort of shunned it as a fringe movement, he added.As the protesters gathered outside the White House, Trump was inside having lunch with Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker (R) and Florida Gov. Rick Scott (R), where they discussed how best to solve the problems of Obamacare, according to a Trump administration statement.Both Scott and Walker represent states that refused to cooperate with the law by either setting up a state-run insurance exchange or accepting federal assistance to expand the Medicaid program in their states.House legislation that will undo key Affordable Care Act provisions is expected to be introduced as soon as Monday, according to congressional aides. That legislation would ultimately undo the system of income-based tax subsidies and penalties at the center of the ACA as well as phase out the expansion of Medicaid, the federally funded health-care program for the poor that now covers 74million Americans.In its place, the Republican plan will probably offer an age-adjusted tax credit to help Americans purchase private insurance and boost funding for hospitals that serve many uninsured patients.Sanders, who spent Saturday evening talking to Democrats in Kansas, said that the conservative state was getting a hard lesson in supply-side economics. Gov. Sam Brownback (R), who had signed a series of tax cuts, was among the Republican governors now asking that any reform of the ACA save the Medicaid expansion  something Republicans had sued to get rid of.Thereve been massive cutbacks in programs for working families, Sanders said. This is what Donald Trump is threatening to do for the whole country  he told working families he wouldnt cut their Social Security or their health care, and we are going to expose him for that hypocrisy.Numerous GOP aides and lawmakers say that the goal of their system is to ensure universal access to insurance, not universal coverage. But Democrats say that the Republican plan could potentially cause millions to lose their coverage, and they have sought to highlight cases of sick Americans who might not have been able to access health care if not for the ACA. A consultants report shared at a National Governors Association conference this weekend, obtained Saturday by Vox, shows that recently floated GOP replacement proposals would indeed lead to a major decline in the number of insured Americans.Some Republicans have characterized the protests and the town hall confrontations as the work of paid protesters and fringe groups, and they say they remain confident that voters want the ACA repealed and replaced. Others have promised to preserve the more popular elements of the law.The activist left is giving Democratic leaders fits as they search for answers after their failures in 2016, said Jesse Hunt, a spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee. A constellation of progressive groups are more than happy to play a hand in the process to try and promote the same far-left agenda that has been rejected by the American people in two consecutive elections.Polling continues to show an uptick in public support for the law, but it remains deeply divisive. The most recent  showed the highest-ever level of favorability toward the ACA, 48percent favorable versus 42percent unfavorable, although the public remains almost evenly deadlocked on whether to repeal the law.Over the weekend, the Democratic leaders of all 57 state and territorial parties converged in Atlanta to elect new officers. A billboard truck, paid for by the conservative American Action Network, circled the hotel and convention center where they were meeting, showing an image of House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and accusing the ACA of bringing about higher costs, fewer choices, and canceled plans.But that ad, which is mirrored in mail being sent to House districts, makes no mention of a potential Republican replacement. Theyve got nothing, zero, said Brendan Dillon, the chairman of the Michigan Democratic Party.Jane Kleeb, the chair of Nebraskas Democratic Party, said that defending the ACA had been a non-starter in her conservative state. In 2012, Republicans helped scare Democratic Sen. Ben Nelson into retirement over his vote for the law. Two years later, they elected Sen. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.), who promised to repeal it.Nobody was talking about it  everybodys head was in the sand, even progressives, said Kleeb. We didnt feel like we got everything we wanted.Those doubts, she said, disappeared when Trump won and Republicans promised to gut the ACA. All the farmers I work with are self-insured, she said. They need their insurance costs to stay down, and they need rural hospitals to stay open. That only happens if Obamacare stays in place.The recent uptick in engagement appears to be because of people like Nissen Ritter, a 57-year-old resident of Chevy Chase, Md., who does not personally benefit from major ACA programs but has family members who do  and who had not attended a political rally for years before Trumps election.Ritter said she had not felt compelled to march for health care beforehand: I assumed that the people would want that. And so I felt like I didnt need to say anything at the time. But now Im sorry I didnt.SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors arent staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.Trump announced his decision on Twitter late Saturday afternoon. The dinner is scheduled for April 29.I will not be attending the White House Correspondents' Association Dinner this year. Please wish everyone well and have a great evening!Shortly after Trumps tweet, the president of the White House Correspondents Association, which sponsors theannual event, said in an email that the dinner would take place even without Trumps attendance.[The dinner] has been and will continue to be a celebration of the First Amendment and the important role played by an independent news media in a healthy republic, said Jeff Mason, WHCA president. We look forward to shining a spotlight at the dinner on some of the best political journalism of the past year and recognizing the promising students who represent the next generation of our profession.amidhis increasingly fraught relationship with the press. Throughout his campaign, Trump regularly lashed out at the press, singling out news outletsfor being dishonest and at one point . Sincehis election, he has accused certain media outlets of publishing fake news. Earlier this month, the tense relationship reached a boil when Trump called the media  earlier this month saying the dinner would take place. Vanity Fair, the New Yorker and Bloomberg canceled their parties, which had usually drawn celebrities. Comedian  on the same night for journalists and non-irritating celebrities from around the world. (Itstentative name: Not the White House Correspondents Dinner.)Questions about whether the dinner was appropriate existed before Trump took office. The event is an annual gathering of journalists and the people they cover, typically headlined by the sitting president. The White House Correspondents Associationawards $100,000 in scholarships at its annual dinner, according to its website, and recently started a mentoring program that pairs working journalists with journalism students.The annual dinner began in 1921, and Calvin Coolidge became the first president to attend the dinner in 1924. In 1978, Jimmy Carter declined to attend, citing exhaustion. First lady Rosalynn Carter and Vice President Walter Mondale also didnt show up that year, In 1981, President Ronald Reagan managed to deliver remarks by phone even though he was at Camp David recovering from an assassination attempt.If I could give you just one little bit of advice, when somebody tells you to get in a car quick, do it, In 2011, then-president Barack Obama roasted Trump at the dinner  five minutes of jokes directed at the man who had raised questions about whether Obama was born in the United States.No one is happier, no one is prouder to put this birth certificate matter to rest than the Donald, said Obama, who ultimately released his birth certificate. Thats because he can finally get back to focusing on the issues that matter, like: Did we fake the moon landing? What really happened in Roswell? And where are Biggie and Tupac?All kidding aside, obviously, we all know about your credentials and breadth of experience, Obama said. For example, no seriously, just recently in an episode of Celebrity Apprentice, at the steakhouse, the mens cooking team did not impress the judges from Omaha Steaks. And there was a lot of blame to go around but you, Mr. Trump, recognized that the problem was a lack of leadership and so ultimately you didnt blame Little John or Meatloaf  you fired Gary Busey. And these are the kinds of decisions that would keep me up at night. Well-handled, sir. Well-handled.Obama ended his roast talking about the change a President Donald Trump would bring to the White House.Then he flashed a picture of the then-hypothetical Trump White house, emblazoned with pink neon and gold columns, with bikini-clad women relaxing in the fountain outside.SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors arent staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.And heres another statistic that I havent heard anybody talk about. Did you know that the national debt in President Trumps first month went down $12 billion? Cain asked the hosts.Less than an hour later, the statistic appeared on another highly visible platform. The media has not reported that the National Debt in my first month went down by $12 billion vs a $200 billion increase in Obama first mo, Trump tweeted.The media has not reported that the National Debt in my first month went down by $12 billion vs a $200 billion increase in Obama first mo.Trump quickly followed the tweet with another: Great optimism for future of U.S. business, AND JOBS, with the DOW having an 11th straight record close. Big tax & regulation cuts coming! on the conservative blog Gateway Pundit, which compared the change in the U.S. debt load during Trumps first month in office with what happened for former president Barack Obama. Looking closer at these figures, they hardly add up to the success that Trump and Cain are claiming.The Gateway Pundit article says that the change in debt under Trump translates to a 0.1 percent reduction in the U.S. debt burden. Actually, it's .06 percent between Jan. 20 and Feb. 21 -- a very small change. (The national debt has gone up or down by as much .19 percent on single days this year.)For one, Trump is citing such a narrow window of time that the statistics hes pointing to dont mean very much. The level of debt fluctuates day to day and week to week, depending on seasonalchanges in growth and when the government makes payments, collects tax revenue, issues new debt and other debt matures  making the data very susceptible to cherry-picking.Using the same logic, for example, you could claim that after four days in office Trump increased outstanding public debt by more than $10 billion, and that Obama had reduced it by $6 billion.On Thursday,the public debt outstandingwas $19.9 trillion  or, to be more exact, $19,913,903,120,188.10. And while that isless than it was on Inauguration Day, it's $29.2 billion more than it was on Feb. 8. All that goes to say you can't pay attention to infinitesimal movements in the debt week-to-week.Its impossible to know whether Trumps election has really had time to filter through to concretely affectthe economy. Congress has not passed any of his policies yet. The stock market has certainly continued to boom, but it was already rising before the election.While it's possible anticipation of tax cuts or regulatory relief is heating up the economy and leading to increased government receipts, investors might also be choosingnot to sell assets to avoid current capital gains tax rates and waiting to see whether the Republican-dominated Congress successfully slashes rates.As for the comparison to Trump'spredecessor, Obama took office amid the depths of a historic recession that had started over a year before he entered the White House. The U.S. economy was shedding more than 700,000 jobs a month and the unemployment rate was more than double its current level.Dire economic conditions like these naturally inflate the debt level. As people lose work, take out unemployment insurance and draw on food stamps, the government both doles out far more in supportive payments and takes in less revenue in the form of taxes. over the beginning of the Obama administration.It's important to note that while Trump and the figures refer tototal public debt outstanding, this is not the most commonly used number by budget experts. That's because a little less than one-third of the total public debt outstanding is money the government owes itself in the form of expected Social Security payments and the like. Most experts focus on the debt held by the public  banks, ordinary people, foreign countries,etc.That was $14.4 trillion on Thursday.In 2009, the debt as a percentage of gross domestic product, a common measure, went to 52.3 percent from 39.3 percent the year before. That was the result of the massive shortfall in tax revenue because ofthe Great Recession and substantial new fiscal spending to support the economy. Today, the debt-to-GDP ratio stands at 77 percent, and it's The question is whether under Trump, the debt will decline, continue to rise gradually or explode. While Republicans pushed for a balanced budget during the Obama administration, Trump's brand of populist economicsdoesn't seem as focused on containing the debt. His agenda involves massive tax cuts and largeincreases in spending on defense and infrastructure, which independent budget experts suggest will explode the debt. his tax plans would cut federal tax revenue over the next 10 years by at least $6.2 trillion. And that's before taking into account Trump's spending plans. Republicans say tax cuts will pay for themselves by speeding up economic growth, but most independent experts  even those who favor tax reform  doubt the GOP's rosy predictions. And Republicans also tend to favor big cuts to entitlement programs, although Trump has said he opposes such cuts. would need to cut the deficit by $3.3 trillion over the next decade simply to maintain the current GDP-to-debt ratio. We will learn more about Trump's plan when he releases his budget next month.Do you have information the public should know? Here are some ways you can securely send information and documents to Post journalists.SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors arent staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.A senior Republican lawmaker on Friday agreed that a special prosecutor should investigate Russia's alleged interference with the 2016 presidential election.Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) became one of the few Republican representatives to state publicly the needfor an independent investigation into Russia's reported election meddling. This comes as Democrats have increasingly pushed for an investigation intoIn an appearance on HBO's Real Time with Bill Maher, Issa,a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, first told the progressive show host that House and Senate intelligence committees would look into Russia's activities within the special areas they oversee.That was not sufficient for Maher, who pressed Issa formerly the head of the House Oversight Committee  on whether he would have let that slide had similar suspicions arose involving the Democrats. Maher has been a vocal critic of Trump. concluded that hackers with connections to the Russian government targeted the Democratic National Committee and leaked thousands of emails to WikiLeaks in an effort to sway the outcome in Trump's favor.United States intelligence agencies have said they agree with the assessment, and a Russia has denied the accusations, and Trump  who has a history of praising Russian President Vladimir PutinLet's go back to 2012, Maher asked Issa on the show Friday. Say the Russians hacked only Mitt Romney and there was a lot of contact between the Obama administration and Russia. You'd have let that slide?Maher protested, saying there needed to be aspecial prosecutor  and that now-Attorney General Jeff Sessions should recuse himself the same way former Attorney General Loretta Lynch recused herself from an investigation into Hillary Clinton's emails. that the Trump administration tried to enlist intelligence officials to counter news stories about Russia's ties with Trump's associates.Trump's national security adviser, Michael Flynn,  in an independent investigation.Sessions indicated during the confirmation process that he would not recuse himself during any investigations involving Trump.If merely being a supporter of the Presidents during the campaign warranted recusal from involvement in any matter involving [Trump], then most typical presidential appointees would be unable to conduct their duties, Sessions told Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.) in written responses to the Senate Judiciary Committee, On Friday, however, Issa seemed to agree with Maher that Sessions should not be involved in an investigation.You're right, you cannot have somebody, a friend of mine, Jeff Sessions, who was on the campaign and who was an appointee, he said. You're going to need to use the special prosecutor's statute and office.Issa added that it would also be inappropriate for Sessions to pass the investigation on to the deputy attorney general.He then explained, in a lengthy tangent, that Russia needed to be investigated because they are bad people.Here's the reason we're going to have to do it, Bill. There may or may not be fault, but the American people who are beginning to understand that Putin murders his enemies  sometimes right in front of the Kremlin, and then suddenly the cameras don't work there  he's murdered people and taken down [sic] using cyberwarfare in Georgia and Ukraine. This is a bad guy who murders people, who runs a gas station with an economy the size of Italy but is screwing up things all over the world that we've been doing 'working with.' Now, we have to work with them. We don't have to trust them. And we need to investigate their activities and we need to do it because they are bad people.Issa is serving his ninth term in Congress but is likely to face a grueling midterm election in 2018. After a lengthy reelection campaign last year, Most of Issa's appearance on Maher's show Friday focused on efforts to overhaul the health-care system. Issa has long been a vocal advocate of repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act and last week released a draft bill titled the On Tuesday,Issa was accused of skipping out on his constituents when he did not attend, as expected, an emergency town hall on health care in the San Diego area.In response, tweets with the hashtag #WhereIsDarrell began appearing. Another video from the event showed Issa's face attached to a large cardboard cutout of Waldo,the purposely hard-to-spot cartoon character that was the star of a children's book series.When Maher brought up the lawmaker's absence from the town hall, Issa defended himself by saying that he had over 14 separate events open to the public in the last two weeks and that he had spoken to several hundred people who showed up outside his office to protest recently.The reality is is there are not enough town-hall meetings, Issa told Maher. We've gone to tele-town hall.SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors arent staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.Booed and bloody, Mack Beggs dropped to his knees to celebrate. He was, after four wins and two days and all the rest, a state champion. In a 12-2 victory against Chelsea Sanchez in the 110-pound classification, Beggs ended a highly controversial and dramatic weekend by becoming the first transgender participant to win a Class 6A girls state championship in Texas high school wrestling. I just witnessed my sport change, a longtime Texas wrestling coach said moments after Beggs, a 17-year-old junior at Trinity High in Euless whose transition from girl to boy began two years ago and now includes testosterone injections, won a championship. The victory was seen as equal parts unavoidable  quick and noticeably strong, he entered the tournament unbeaten in 52matches against girls  and contentious. The University Interscholastic League, which oversees sports in Texas public schools, ordered Beggs to continue competing in the girls division despite heavy uproar and a lawsuit earlier this month in a Travis County district court. So Saturday, those who had packed into Berry Center, a sprawling multipurpose facility in suburban Houston, were divided  like the state and country. It seemed an unlikely place to stage a raging political discussion, but the tournament ended a week in which President Trump revoked federal guidelines allowing transgender students to use public restrooms that match their gender identity; it played out in a sprawling and culturally diverse state divided over a controversial bathroom bill similar to the one roiling North Carolina. In this time and place, with Beggs cruising to a state championship, the hundreds here had no choice but to confront one of the nations most divisive and highly charged issues. Shes standing there holding her head high like shes the winner, said Patti Overstreet, a mother of a wrestler in the boys division. Shes not winning. Shes cheating.Other parents tiptoed around the discussion, wondering what to say and how to say it. Kids confronted coaches about topics as complicated as gender identity and as simple as fairness, leading some to squirm and others to attempt explanations. Everybody has been talking about it. Its in the ether everywhere, said one longtime Texas high school wrestling coach, who requested anonymity because his school district prohibited its employees from publicly discussing Beggss situation. All this week Im in school and kids are coming up and talking about it. Ive never seen anything like this.Beyond the politics are the young people who have been forced to participate within a discussion and scene that, by any measure, is difficult to make sense of. The coach said one of his girls quit the wrestling team rather than face Beggs, who has documented and shared the results of his testosterone use on social media. James Baudhuin, the attorney suing the UIL over Beggss participation in the girls division, has a daughter who had wrestled against Beggs and, at least before the suit, was among his friends.The ordeal grew complicated, on and off the mat. Baudhuin himself said he was so conflicted that, though hed filed a petition to keep Beggs off the mat, he would nonetheless be cheering for Beggs to win the championship.The 16 girls who are in [Beggss] bracket have been put in a very, very unfair situation because of the grown-ups, Baudhuin said. To me, this is a complete abject failure of leadership and accountability from the people who regulate sports in Texas. Theyre doing wrong by Mack, and not just these 15 girls but all the other girls she wrestled all year.Then there is the experience of Beggs himself. Nearly two years ago, in a video diary explaining his transition, he discussed the sport he loved, the peace he sought and the ambition he had. I want to be somebody, he said long before all this; before the boos and the cameras; before his coach whisked him on and off the arena floor to minimize Beggss visibility; and before a tournament run that sparked an arena, a state and a nation to confront a subject that previously could have been avoided. Somebody who does something  not just a page in a book. I want to be a book.Beggs spent most of the weekend in a staging area, cordoned off and out of view. When it was time for him to wrestle, he jogged in from a tunnel unused by most other participants and trailed by his wrestling coach and grandmother. School put a safety net on us, Nancy Beggs, Macks grandmother and legal guardian, told The Washington Post in one of several text messages. It kept other opponents, onlookers and an unusually large group of assembled media largely away. Beggs, his grandmother and coach, Travis Clark, were among those Trinity encouraged to decline interviews. Two years ago, Beggs pointed a camera at himself and described a childhood of struggle and confusion  before, he said, discovering a word that simplified what he had experienced: transgender. He had come to loathe his full first name, Mackenzie, and began encouraging friends and family to call him Mack because his given name reminded me of who I was. He cut his hair and told his grandmother that he wanted to be a boy. Nancy Beggs said Saturday that her grandson felt relief after identifying as transgender, like a longtime affliction had finally been diagnosed.Two years ago, Mack Beggs began taking supplements to begin his physical transition. In the video, he predicted a complicated future regarding UIL rules but nonetheless declared that he wanted to go on participating in the sport he had fallen in love with. He began taking testosterone in 2015.Everything is great, Beggs said in the video. The message Im trying to send, the overall universal message I would say to yall is dont give up and dont give up on yourself, because you dont know when youll find yourself.As time passed, attorney Baudhuin said, Beggs requested to wrestle against boys, though because UIL guidelines determine athletes gender based on their birth certificate, that request was declined (citing privacy, the UIL would not discuss that request or Beggss specific case); in a brief interview before the championship final, Nancy Beggs would not comment on whether her grandson hoped to eventually participate in the boys division.Last year, coaches in the Dallas-Fort Worth area began hearing about changes in Beggss physique. He was strong and lean, and coaches noticed an unmistakable strength advantage that hadnt been there even a year earlier. A few coaches and parents became concerned their girls wouldnt compete on equal terrain. Other coaches disagreed, more impressed by Beggss commitment to improvement and his mental preparation. Sides were established. Discussions became increasingly tense. Questions became more difficult to answer. Why, several girls asked the wrestling coach who had asked to remain anonymous, was it okay for Beggs to receive hormones but not them? Why endure training and risk injury if there was no discernible path to victory?Its a dominant American value: fairness, the equality of the pursuit of something, the coach said. ... Theres no doubt that coaches are troubled by this; kids are troubled by it.In December, Baudhuin said, parents began asking him to do something about this. They viewed social media posts documenting the changes to Beggss body, and Beggs made quick work of every opponent he faced. During the state regional tournament, Beggss two opponents forfeited rather than face him. On behalf of the father of one opponent, Baudhuin sent a certified letter in January petitioning the UIL to move Beggs to the boys division. This month he filed a lawsuit that asked for Beggs to be allowed to wrestle boys or removed from the championship tournament. For now, he said, the court has made no decision. The UIL issued a statement Friday that said the birth-certificate rule could change in the future (its legislative council meets in June), and Beggss school district determined his testosterone was well below the allowed level.Beggs has one year of high school eligibility remaining and could face additional scrutiny and potential courtroom battles next season.Youve got a kid whos either going to quit the sport entirely or she has got to wrestle against girls, which she doesnt want to do, said Baudhuin, who said he still refers to Beggs by the female pronoun because he struggles to see his daughters old friend as a boy. Shes in a no-win situation.Lisa Lathams daughter was scheduled to face Beggs in the state tournaments opening round, and throughout the previous week Latham tried to convince Taylor, a senior at nearby Clear Spring High, to forfeit as Beggss opponents did the previous weekend. Taylor, though, refused to consider a forfeit. This would be her final weekend of high school competition, an appearance at the state championship alongside the states top 16 wrestlers. Whatever the outcome, she wouldnt be giving up. Her mother prayed for Taylors safety and texted her inspirational songs. She called the American Civil Liberties Union the day before the state tournament to ask for an emergency injunction to keep Beggs from competing. Taylors aunt took a different approach: offering $500 if Taylor beat Beggs on points, $1,000 for a pin.Shes going for it. Shes not quitting, Lisa Latham said. I go from praying and, God, I trust you, to being angry at myself for teaching her not to quit. Taylors parents arrived at Berry Center shortly before Fridays opening round. Her father, James, was confident; her mother was anxious, rocking back and forth with her hands clasped. Neither blamed Beggs, exactly, for creating this controversy; instead the Lathams were unhappy with the UIL.Beggs won on points to advance to the afternoons quarterfinal. Lisa was relieved her daughter hadnt been injured, and James was proud that Taylor had faced Beggs despite the long odds. Both were relieved Taylor hadnt been pinned. They walked toward the concourse, a cluster of cameras waiting for a sound byte, and eventually Taylor cut through the crowd and found her parents. Her mother wrapped Taylor in a hug, and a moment later she was off to rejoin her teammates. Here comes the guy, one young wrestler said as Beggs stepped onto the mat for his first match Friday. Wrestlers and relatives and fans debated the controversy in the concourses throughout the weekend; coaches and referees discussed it on the floor between matches. There were about 450wrestlers here from roughly 240 schools, but no topic resonated through the arena like the comings and goings of Mack Beggs.If you really want to be a boy, why dont you wrestle the boys? a wrestling coach said during Beggss semifinal match.A few thought the attention was a good way to pressure the UIL to reexamine its policy on gender; others believed it cast an ugly shadow over the weekend and sent mixed messages to athletes.If you want to play the games, you have to play it fair, said Overstreet, the wrestlers mother. I dont care what sex you are. Dont go on the mat with enhancement if my kid cant.Beggs walked onto the arena floor Saturday afternoon in line with the other girls wrestlers. Nancy Beggs stood near a tunnel and watched, preparing for her grandsons match  and whatever waited next. Beggs handed Nancy his headphones and clamped on his headgear, and with Sanchez waiting on the mat, Beggs jogged onto the surface to greet her. Some members of the crowd booed. A few of them cheered. Then a boy shook hands with his female opponent, the two of them leaned in, and the referees whistle blew.SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors arent staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.Rumors about deportation raids started to circulate around the fields again, so Catalina Sanchez and her husband began to calculate the consequences of everything they did.Cirilo Perez, 36, had to go to work because the tomato crop was getting low, and he needed to pick as much as he could as fast as he could. Sanchezs medical checkup would have to wait  going to a clinic was too risky. What they fretted most about was what to do with their daughter Miriam  a natural-born citizen in the third grade  who they worried would come home one day to an empty trailer.When she leaves, I wonder if it will be the last time I see her, Sanchez, 26, said on a recent evening.As President Trump moves to turn the full force of the federal government toward deporting undocumented immigrants, a newfound fear of the future has already cast a pall over the tomato farms and strawberry fields in the largely undocumented migrant communities east of Tampa.Any day could be when deportations ramp up; that, to them, seemed certain. No one knew when or where. And so the community here is in a state of suspension. Children have stopped playing in parks and the streets and businesses have grown quieter, as many have receded into the background, where they feel safe.Its all gringos here, said Maria Pimentel, owner of the community staple Taqueria El Sol, who said she had never heard so much English in her restaurant in her life. Business had plummeted, she said, because her Spanish-speaking customers were scared to come out of their house.Trump has repeatedly cast undocumented workers from Mexico as bad hombres and lower-skilled workers with less education who compete directly against vulnerable American workers. Trump made clear during his campaign that those here illegally today, who are seeking legal status, they will have one route and one route only: to return home and apply for reentry like everybody else.In the early days of his administration, Trump has begun to follow through on those promises. Earlier this month, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency arrested 680 people across the country. The agency has also become aggressive about attempting to detain undocumented migrants who have been jailed by local authorities. As of Friday, it has issued more than 42,000 detainer requests this year, 35percent higher than the year before.ICE described its actions as routine and lambasted those who labeled them as raids because nearly 1 in 4 of those arrested had no criminal records.Activists and residents here said they saw at least six people taken away on Feb.2 during a search for someone accused of selling fake Social Security cards in nearby Plant City, the Winter Strawberry Capital of the World. The next day, the number of migrant children who stayed home from school surged by 40percent, according to statistics from the local school district.There were crackdowns under President Obama, as well, but local activist Norma Rosalez said people generally trusted him to target only criminals and potential terrorists. Obama also offered protection to dreamers  undocumented immigrants who were brought to the country at a young age  but teenagers were now afraid to apply to the program, Rosalez said, over fears that an application would lead an immigration officer straight to their door.The changed environment made many wonder what would happen to the north this spring and summer, when workers normally move on to Georgia to pick peaches or to Michigan to pick peppers. Many thought they would now stay put. It was safer that way.We look at it like this: The country can either import its workforce or import its food, said Dale Moore, executive director of policy for the Farm Bureau, which lobbies for easing restrictions to get foreign workers for agriculture.Weve been fighting for this for years, but immigration has a different flavor with Donald Trump, Moore said.Growers here rejected Trumps notion that farmworkers were competing with American workers, and hoped he would see more nuance to the issue.You can actually make a good living  $15, $20 an hour if youre good at this  but the truth is Americans dont want to do this work, said one prominent Florida farmer, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he feared Trumps administration would target him for speaking out.One recent night, Sanchez got a Facebook message saying that raids were going to happen either that day or the next. Another friend told them about a police car checking vehicles in a nearby town. Someone else talked about seeing an ICE officer shopping at Walmart. There was a meeting for concerned parents in a nearby subdivision, but they wondered whether it was a trap.Is it safe? Sanchez asked Maristela Hinojosa, a community coordinator for the Hispanic Services Council who organized the meeting. She had received so many similar calls that she considered canceling.Hinojosa held the meeting and, not long after Sanchez and Perez took their seats in the back, she locked the doors to make people feel safer. When there was a knock, she responded with, Quien es? before opening the door.This was the sort of lesson Hinojosa emphasized to the attendants. Dont just open the door. If there is an ICE agent on the other side, dont open it at all. She told them about their right to remain silent. She handed out tiny cards that were to be handed over to anyone who stopped them, explaining that they did not speak English and would like a lawyer.Perez immediately put the card in his wallet. I feel like this is something I could do, he said with a rare touch of empowerment. He had met Sanchez working in the fields and together they had young Miriam and, now, a baby named Gustavo. They tried to avoid the topic with their children.I dont like what Im doing, but I do it to make a living, and I find joy in that, Perez said after the meeting. It was the choice between a full life for my children or a life of empty stomachs.The couple began to cry. Miriam walked up to hug her father. Perez pulled out his cellphone and tried to change the subject.There were similar sessions going on throughout the county, with community leaders focusing on helping families with American children. Lourdes Villanueva, director of programs for the Redlands Christian Migrant Association, which runs Head Start programs for migrant families throughout Florida, said she was surprised how popular they were  and how unpopular school had become.Usually, there were waiting lists for migrant children to get into preschool, but after the election enrollment dropped by 43percent. Staff at the Head Start center in nearby Dover began stacking cabbages and bananas on flatbeds outside so the farmworkers had food to take home when they picked up their children, since many of their parents were afraid to go to the grocery store.Dont try to get pity from them, because they are not trying to help you, Castro said. They are just trying to do their jobs.Villanueva handed out a stack of documents that asked parents to name an emergency contact who would have authority to take custody of their children in case they were sent back to Mexico.The next day, Irene Lara and Paulina Martinez put on red shirts and climbed into a white van for a different kind of search.As migrant recruiters for the school system, their job was to look for farmworker families who had not sent their children to school. They never inquired about their immigration status.The recruiters helped to double the number of migrant children attending public school within two years, according to Carol Mayo, who supervises a program serving 4,000 students.Nowadays, families were less likely to ask about school lunch and more likely to ask how they could get a lawyer or get in touch with the Mexican Consulate. One of her newest staffers even caused a scare when he drove to a trailer park wearing sunglasses. The dwellers began screaming as they ran inside and as laundry flew off clotheslines.Lara thought she had mastered how to find migrant workers. She would glance at peoples knees to look for clumps of dirt or under their cuticles for stains from strawberries. She would demurely speak with them in Spanish, then try to impress them by telling them about the day she picked 81 flats of strawberries when she worked on the farms herself.But, on this day, she and Martinez set out for a strip mall that farmworkers frequent and saw no one. They drove to a nearby strawberry field, where typically she could spot the silhouettes of bent-over strawberry pickers in the distance. The grove was relatively empty.They traveled next to a trailer park near one of the biggest strawberry fields in Plant City. As they drove into the lot, men jumped into cars with tinted windows and license plates from Tennessee, Wisconsin and Michigan. One driver wore a mask over his face.Its Day Without Immigrants protests, its the talk about raids, its the fear of strangers, its everything, Lara said. People are scared, but their children still need help. Its better for them to be in school.They made one final stop at St. Clement Catholic Church, where more and more migrants had been showing up for Mass on Sundays. Pulling in, she saw something she had not seen all day: a man walking out of a building on the church campus with dirt caked on his jeans.The man explained that representatives from the Mexican Consulate had set up in a recreation area of the church. The consulate had come to help undocumented migrants fill out paperwork for their American children so they could apply for dual citizenship. It was a last, desperate move for those who might get deported.Inside, parents sat in plastic chairs waiting to meet representatives who sat with a stack of paperwork on foldout tables. Some families came with bags filled with documents. Some had no proof of origin at all.I think Trump is bullying people by the color of their skin and he should show love to people more and make better life choices, Kayla said. I love my parents, and I dont understand why the government would want to take them away.I am a woman of faith, Ocampo recalled telling her daughter about Trumps plans. We just have to trust that there is a reason we are living through this, and hope that this moment would open his heart and see the truth.If not faith, then the law. Ocampo tried to remain calm. But Trumps America had so unsettled her, she felt forced to seek help from the country she ran away from 16years ago. It was an America in which her American daughter was now looking to also become a Mexican citizen, so she could join her family if she came home from school one day to find an empty home.SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors arent staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.In 1973,attorney John Dean sat before the Senate Watergate Committee and recounted the grimy details of the scandal that brought Richard Nixon's presidency to a prematureend.Dean had pored over 600 hours of secretly recorded White House tapes and admitted he had been involved in strategic conversations about illegal activity.During the final months of Nixon's presidency, Dean testified against the commander in chief  words that helped end a presidency and landed Now, 44 years later, the man who experienced presidential scandalup close says he has a case of deja vu.Dean said in an interview aired Friday that President Trump's first month in office  with its anti-media tirades and efforts to use intelligence agencies for political purposes  has echoes of Watergate.I have expertise on this matter. Push back on an FBI investigation of the White House is better known as a COVER UP: .We dont have Watergate 2.0 yet, but what we have is something that is beginning to look like it could go there.. And he has said that PresidentGeorge W. Bush should have been impeached. In fact, the title of Dean's 2004 book is But Dean saidhe sees a Nixonian patina in how Trump's administration has tried to get the U.S. intelligence community to play down alleged tieswith Russia.This week, several news agencies reported that the administration askedsenior members of the intelligence community to counter stories about Trump associates' ties to Russia.Every time you think the Trump Administration could be semi-normal, there's something like this, and it feels like Nixon '73 all over again. A reminder for Trump: Nixon also tried to stop an FBI investigation. He found out no president is above the law. Four decades ago, as the Watergate scandal swirled, Dean said Nixon's White House behaved in a similar fashion, trying to use the CIA to cut off the FBI investigation.Asdetails of Nixon's interactions with intelligence officials seeped out, Dean said the president tried to cover up what happened, which caused even more damage.What it did is it caught Richard Nixon in a lie, because he had denied he had known anything about any cover up until I told him much later, when I started having direct dealings with him, Dean said. And it was the lie that caught him more than that particular incident. on Thursday's news conference: Trump repeatedly lambasted the fake news media  which at one point he upgraded (or downgraded) to the very fake news media  while promoting some dubious claims and , they reported. The media is trying to attack our administration because they know we are following through on pledges we made, and theyre not happy about it for whatever reason, Trump said at Thursday's news conference.Dean said Nixon made those kind of comments, that we only know about because he had his secret taping system running and seemed to forget it was on just constantly when he was in the office.It would automatically go on. And hed make those kind of attacks against the media, calling the media the enemy, saying that he was going to wiretap them and surveil them to find out who was leaking.In his interview, Dean delves into a bigger question: If Trumphas so many parallels with Nixon, will his presidency end in similar fashion?The House and Senate are controlled by the Republicans, theyre not going to impeach their president, he said. As long as he gives them what they want and signs into legislation or signs into law a lot of the things that theyve had in their dreams for many years, theyre not going to give him any problem. Impeachment is not a legal process. Its a quasi-legal process, but its primarily a political process. And were not there yet.SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors arent staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.Confrontation with the United States is so central to Mexican history theres an institutiondedicated to the trauma. Its called the Museum of Interventions.Remember the Alamo? They do here  as the prelude to a string of defeats, invasions and territorial losses that left Mexico wounded and diminished, its national identity forged by grievance.The museum is housed in a former convent where Mexican troops were overrun by U.S. soldiers inthe 1847. And for most of thethree decades since the museum opened, its faded battle flags seemed like the stuff of buried history, an anachronism in an age of galloping North American Free Trade Agreement integration.But President Trumps wall-building, great-again nationalism is reviving the old Mexican version, too.His characterization of tougher border enforcement and immigration raids as a military operation hit the nerve that runs through this legacy, undermining his Instead, the public outrage at Trump has sunk those relations to their lowest point in decades. It has inspired a campaign to boycott U.S. chains such as Starbucks and buy Made in Mexico products. Protesters  in a dozen cities this month, carrying grotesque effigies of the American president. And Trumps taunts have buoyed the poll numbers of 2018 presidential contender Andrs Manuel Lpez Obrador, the left-wing populist Mexicans see as the figure most likely to fight back.For Mexicans, the problem is not merely the wall. They know their country is poorer, more violent and less law-abiding than the United States. If Trump had announced plans for tougher border security,many Mexicans would have understood, even as they criticized him.But when they hear Trump boasting he will make Mexico pay for the wall, and the wild cheering in response, they recognize an unmistakable attempt to humiliate them. It is American nationalism at Mexicos expense, and it stings in a deep, atavistic way, like a childhood bully coming back to beat you up again.Im proud of Mexico, and I love my country, said Sergio Pacheco, 56, a mechanic who works for American Airlines. He can have his wall if hell give us our territory back.Pacheco was touring the Museum of Interventions for the first time. There were giant 1840s maps showing Mexicos borders reaching into the Pacific Northwest. President James K. Polk wanted that land. Mexico wasnt selling, and fighting broke out. TheUnited States declared war in 1846.U.S. troops sailed down from New Orleans a year later, then marched up the old conquistadors trail and brought Mexico to its knees. They stayed a year, forcing the country to sign away half its territory. by the U.S. Navy in 1914, and the 1916 invasion by thousands of U.S. soldiers chasing Francisco Pancho Villa, the prototypical bad hombre, who had raided the border town of Columbus, N.M.Theresult of these encounters, according to Mexican historian Lorenzo Meyer, is that the two countries developedvastly different forms of nationalism. Mexicos is a defensive one, he said, steeped in a sense of injustice and indignity, unlike the more belligerent northern version,of American exceptionalism and militarizedPacheco never thought about this history much. But the diplomatic clashes of the past few weeks have left him shocked. He is a fan of American music and movies and the Super Bowl. For most of his lifetime, the two countries have been steadily growing closer.Weve always looked up to the United States, he said. Now, after all this time, were realizing that you dont really like us.President Enrique Pea Nieto has mostly tried to accommodate the new reality, challenging Trumps proposals in restrained, diplomatic language. He has offered a more forceful response only when he felt he had no choice, such as when he canceledMexicans, too, are divided about what to do. This month, protesters held two marches in the capital. Both were anti-Trump, but one was also a demonstration against the deeply unpopular Pea Nieto, whom organizers view as a Trump-enabler. Others, including tycoon ,are calling on Mexicans to close ranks behind their president, because the country is under attack.An ironyof the spat with Pea Nieto is that he has already paid a steep political cost for enacting controversial energy changes favored by American companies. He has opened Mexican oil and gas development to greater foreign investment, but that has only led to higher prices for angry Mexican consumers and lower poll numbers for him. The last time the country was so open to U.S. investment, during the Gilded Age dictatorship of Gen. Porfirio Diaz, Mexican resentment of the government boiled over into revolution. The country eventually adopted  Mexican President Lazaro Cardenas nationalized the holdings of Standard Oil and other foreign companies in 1938, infuriating the firms but delighting Mexicans. In a show of patriotism, thousands of Mexican women came to a central square in Mexico City offering money, wedding rings and livestock to pay the companies back. I grew up in a country where you were taught in obligatory history textbooks that the United States was the enemy, the country that stole half our land and the country of the Ugly American, said Denise Dresser, a prominent Mexican political scientist whose father was a U.S. citizen. She helped organize the march this month that was also against Pea Nieto and his Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), which ruled the country from 1929 to 2000 and cast itself as the heroic defender of Mexican dignity. Mexico was a relatively closed, insular society for most of those years, but as more and more Mexicans came into contact with the world through television and mass migration to the United States, nationalism was transformed. Mexican workers returning home also broke down the old divisions. They brought back a view of the United States as a tolerant, upwardly mobile place, and began to demand rights back home that they saw in the United States, Dresser said.That created a virtuous cycle, and a new sense of identity constructed not in opposition to the U.S., but in favor of North America, she said. But in Trumps taunts many Mexicans hear confirmation of their deep-seated suspicion that Americans still dont value and respect them.Trumps comments are forcing a re-examination of Mexicos relationship with the United States, from its intricate commercial and industrial ties to deepening cooperation with U.S. law enforcement. New legislation in Mexicos senate would halt imports of American NAFTA is not the natural, default setting of U.S.-Mexico relations. It is an attempt to transcend the mistrust and bitterness of the past.The agreement took an aspirational view of U.S.-Mexico ties. It recognized the two countries were significantly different. But it treated Mexico essentially as an equal partner, along with Canada, increating a prosperous, democratic and collaborative place called North America, quietingthe skeptics who insisted Mexico didnt belong there.Since NAFTA took effect, annual U.S.-Mexico commerce has increased from $80 billion to $550 billion. And as trade barriers fell, Mexicos defensive nationalism did, too. But as American factory jobs moved south, NAFTA dealt ablow to the latent notions of U.S. nationalism built onpostwar-era industrial pride. Trumps America First worldview restores the idea of industrial products as vessels of patriotism. But it has left Mexicansbaffled by the claim their country is taking advantage of the United States through NAFTA. Mexican workers earn a small fraction of what their American counterparts make, and the trade partnership is overwhelmingly driven by U.S.-based Fortune 500 companies. Mexican cities have filled with U.S. chain stores and restaurants, not the other way around., a former U.S. ambassador to Mexico, sees the return of the animal spirits that once soured relations between the two countries.But Garza, who served from 2002 to 2009 under President George W. Bush and now works as an attorney in Mexico City, said hes seen something different in the resurgent nationalism on Mexicos streets.SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors arent staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.It's becomean American tradition to parsebillionaire Warren Buffett's annualletters to his shareholders for nuggets of plain-spoken insight, wit and sometimes a dash of politics.In this year's letter, the Berkshire Hathaway chairman brought up a familiar subject under Donald Trump's presidency: immigrants.Americans have combined human ingenuity, a market system, a tide of talented and ambitious immigrants, and the rule of law to deliver abundance beyond any dreams of our forefathers, Buffett also glanced off a coupleother Trump talking points in his letter  offering a much more optimistic take than the president.Where Trump has railed about foreigners subsuming American debt and assets  they suck the blood right out of out countryForeigners, of course, own or have claims on a modest portion of our wealth. Those holdings, however, are of little importance to our national balance sheet, he wrote.And those worriedabout the course of the next four years might glean some hidden hopein this passage:Yes, the build-up of wealth will be interrupted for short periods from time to time. It will not, however, be stopped.Then he turned the remainder of his 27-page letter to stockholder profits, share repurchases and GEICO: in Buffett'sview,part of the same glowing American tapestry as immigrants and newborns.Do you have information the public should know? Here are some ways you can securely send information and documents to Post journalists.SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors arent staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.