time
(ATLANTA)  Democrats elected former Labor Secretary Tom Perez as their new national chairman on Saturday over a liberal Minnesota congressman after a divisive campaign that reflected the depths of the party's electoral failures as well as the energy from resistance to President Donald Trump.Perez, the first Latino to hold the post, edged Rep. Keith Ellison on the second round of voting by Democratic National Committee members gathered in Atlanta.A nod to his margin of 35 votes out of 435 cast, to say nothing of the lingering friction between old-guard Democratic brokers and outspoken liberal upstarts, Perez tapped Ellison to serve as deputy chair."We are all in this together," Perez said, calling on Democrats to fight "the worst president in the history of the United States." He added, "I am confident when we lead with our values and we lead with our actions, we succeed."Perez had led on the first ballot among six candidates, but fell just short of the required majority.Earlier Saturday, Perez told DNC members the party was facing a "crisis of confidence" and a "crisis of relevance.""We need a chair who cannot only take the fight to Donald Trump but make sure that we talk about our positive message of inclusion and opportunity and talk to that big tent of the Democratic Party," Perez said.Both top candidates had promised aggressive rebuilding efforts for state and local Democratic parties.The chair campaign was uncharted territory as Democrats face a power deficit not seen in nine decades. Republicans control the White House, Congress and about two-thirds of U.S. statehouses. The GOP is one Senate confirmation fight away from a conservative majority on the Supreme Court.With Democrats in agreement in their opposition to Trump, the race turned on who was able to convince enough DNC members to believe his promises of rebuilding party infrastructure that withered under President Barack Obama despite his personal electoral success.Ellison told voting members he had signatures from 750,000 rank-and-file Democrats who support his chairmanship bid. He promised to "convert them from demonstration energy to electoral energy." He pledged to prioritize small donations to finance the party, while working to "organize this whole country."Perez said he would "rebuild strong parties" and "organize, organize, organize" so Democratic nominees could win "from the school to the Senate in all the states."Perez got into the race at Obama's urging, but he pushed back on the notion that represented the same "establishment" label that dogged Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign. Ellison had endorsements from Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who challenged Clinton for the Democratic nomination, and also from Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer.For their parts, Ellison and Perez had praised each other and promised unity regardless of the outcome.The winner succeeds outgoing Chairwoman Donna Brazile, who led the party as interim chief in the fallout from disclosure that internal party communications were stolen by hackers and leaked during the 2016 presidential campaign.U.S. intelligence officials have blamed Russian agents and said Moscow's intention was to help Trump win.Brazile said Saturday the party has worked with cybersecurity experts to address vulnerabilities. She chided Trump for his mockery of DNC cybersecurity and his doubts that Russians are at fault. and buy anti-Russian hacking software," she said, urging Congress to investigate whether Russians hacked the Republican National Committee.No RNC emails were leaked during the 2016 campaign. Republican officials insist their party communications were not breached.FBI Director James Comey and Deputy Director Andrew McCabe may have violated multiple existing Justice Department rules controlling contacts between the bureau and White House officials  into Russias influence operation against the 2016 U.S. presidential election, according to several former senior Justice Department officials.The first questionable contact came when McCabe spoke with Priebus for five minutes after a 7:30 a.m. meeting at the White House on Feb. 15 on an unrelated intelligence issue. The day before, the New York  that Trumps campaign and other Trump associates had multiple contacts with known agents of Russian intelligence in the year before the election.Priebus asked McCabe what could be done to push back, saying the White House was getting crushed on the story. McCabe demurred, and then later called back to say, We'd love to help but we can't get into the position of making statements on every story.FBI Director James Comey later called Priebus himself and repeated McCabes statements about the New York  story. Comey also said he was unwilling to speak publicly about the piece but agreed to let Priebus cite senior intelligence officials in his pushback, the officials said.The back-and-forth may have broken internal rules in place for decades, according to former officials.After President Nixon's scandals in the early 1970s, the Carter Administration imposed rules designed to prevent the FBI from meddling in politics, and to keep politicians from meddling in criminal investigations. In Bill Clintons first term, Attorney General Janet Reno limited contacts between the White House and law enforcement regarding criminal investigations to the top three officials at the Justice Department on the one hand and the President, Vice President and the top two White House lawyers on the other. George W. Bush loosened those limits after 9/11, but after a series of scandals, his last Attorney General, Michael Mukasey reimposed them. Those limits were again adopted by the Obama Administration in a 2009 memo by then-Attorney General Eric Holder.Matt Miller, a Holder aide, says "that memo directs that contacts between the White House and the Justice Department be funneled through the White House counsel's office to the AG or Deputy Attorney General's office precisely so there can be no inappropriate tampering with investigations. If McCabe and Comey told Priebus about what was happening in an ongoing investigation into the president's associates, they clearly violated that guidance and crossed a major line."Those limits aren't the only rules Comey and McCabe may have violated. There are also longstanding written controls, based on authority given to the Attorney General under an , that require the Attorney Generals approval for most contacts between the FBI and the White House regarding foreign intelligence matters that involve domestic political activities. say that, Compromising information concerning domestic officials or political organizations, or information concerning activities of United States persons intended to affect the political process in the United States, may be disseminated to the White House only with the approval of the Attorney General, based on a determination that such dissemination is needed for foreign intelligence purposes, for the purpose of protecting against international terrorism or other threats to the national security, or for the conduct of foreign affairs.Neither the Justice Department nor the FBI would comment on whether the Attorney General approved the contacts between the FBIs leaders and the White House. White House spokesman Sean Spicer told reporters on Feb. 24 that there was a carve-out for public affairs communications. The Holder memo does exempt officials in the communications, public affairs, or press offices of the White House and the Department of Justice from communicating with each other to coordinate efforts.But the Holder rules also explicitly say that pending adversary cases in litigation that may have national security implications are not exempt from the rules.Several former Justice Department officials from both political parties, speaking anonymously, said they believed the contacts violated those rules, but none would speak on the record. Democratic House Leader Nancy Pelosi  Friday for an investigation by the Justice Departments Office of the Inspector General into the contacts between the FBI and the White House.The DOJ's Inspector General, Michael Horowitz, has already launched a broad investigation of the FBI and the Justice Departments actions during the 2016 election. That investigation includes Comeys handling the FBI probe of Hillary Clintons emails, and the meeting held between then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch and Bill Clinton during that investigation in July, Horowitz told Congress on Feb. 1.Muhammad Ali's son, who bears the boxing great's name, was detained by immigration officials at a Florida airport and questioned about his ancestry and religion in what amounted to profiling, a family friend said Saturday.Returning from a Black History Month event in Jamaica, Muhammad Ali Jr. and his mother, Khalilah Camacho Ali, were pulled aside and separated from each other while going through the immigration checkpoint on Feb. 7 at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport, said Chris Mancini, a family friend and attorney.Camacho Ali was released a short time later after showing a photo of herself with her ex-husband, the former heavyweight boxing champion, Mancini said. But Ali Jr. was not carrying a photo of his world-famous father  a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom.Ali Jr., 44, who confirmed his Muslim faith, was detained about two hours, despite telling officials that he's Ali's son and a native-born U.S. citizen, Mancini said. It was the first time Ali Jr. and his mother have ever been asked if they're Muslim when re-entering the United States, he said."From the way they were treated, from what was said to them, they can come up with no other rational explanation except they fell into a profiling program run by customs, which is designed to obtain information from anyone who says they're a Muslim," Mancini said in a phone interview. "It's quite clear that what triggered his detention was his Arabic name and his religion."Reached for comment Friday, a U.S. Customs and Border Protection spokesman said in an email: "Due to the restrictions of the Privacy Act, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection cannot discuss individual travelers; however, all international travelers arriving in the U.S. are subject to CBP inspection," according to The Courier-Journal's report about the detention.During his detention, Ali Jr. was asked repeatedly about his lineage and his name, "as if that was a pre-programmed question that was part of a profile," Mancini said.Ali Jr. and his mother have been frequent global travelers. The family connects their treatment to President Donald Trump's efforts to restrict immigration after calling during his campaign for a ban on Muslims entering the U.S."This has never happened to them before," Mancini said. "They're asked specifically about their Arabic names. Where they got their names from and whether they're Muslims. It doesn't take much to connect those dots to what Trump is doing."Camacho Ali and Ali Jr. live in Florida. They have not traveled abroad since, and are considering filing a federal lawsuit, he said.Ali, the three-time heavyweight champion and humanitarian, died last June at age 74 after a long battle with Parkinson's disease. People lined the streets of Louisville, Kentucky, to say goodbye to the city's most celebrated son before a star-studded memorial service watched worldwide.(WASHINGTON)  U.S. immigration authorities are barring entry to a 21-year-old Syrian cinematographer who worked on a harrowing film about his nation's civil war, "The White Helmets," that has been nominated for an Academy Award.According to internal Trump administration correspondence seen by The Associated Press, the Department of Homeland Security has decided at the last minute to block Khaled Khateeb from traveling to Los Angeles for the Oscars.Khateeb was scheduled to arrive Saturday in Los Angeles on a Turkish Airlines flight departing from Istanbul. But his plans have been upended after U.S. officials reported finding "derogatory information" regarding Khateeb.Derogatory information is a broad category that can include anything from terror connections to passport irregularities. Asked for comment, a spokeswoman for the Department of Homeland Security, Gillian Christensen, said, "A valid travel document is required for travel to the United States." documentary, has been nominated for Best Documentary Short. If the film wins the Oscar, the award would go to director Orlando von Einsiedel and producer Joanna Natasegara. Khateeb is one of three people credited for cinematography; Franklin Dow is the film's director of photography.The film focuses on the rescue workers who risk their lives to save Syrians affected by civil war. Many of the group's members have been killed by Syrian President Bashar Assad's air forces. The group also was nominated for last year's Nobel Peace Prize."The White Helmets" includes emblematic scenes of the deadly 6-year-old conflict: people digging through destroyed homes looking for survivors, at constant risk of "double tap" attacks that target first responders after they've arrived at the scene of a strike.Khateeb had been issued a visa to attend the ceremony with Hollywood's biggest stars. But Turkish authorities detained him this week, according to the internal U.S. government correspondence, and he suddenly needed a passport waiver from the United States to enter the country.The correspondence indicated he would not receive such a waiver. There was no explanation in the correspondence for why Turkey detained Khateeb.The family of a Michigan girl with cerebral palsy who was barred from bringing her service dog to school is hailing a , now 13, used to heavily rely on her Goldendoodle named Wonder to balance, open doors and turn off lights  some of the daily tasks she struggled with because she has a severe form of cerebral palsy which affects her legs, arms and body. But in 2009, when Ehlena was 5, the girl's school district said her hypoallergenic and certified service dog was not allowed. While the school district slightly bowed to pressures from the American Civil Liberties Union of Michigan, which advocated on her behalf, the civil rights group said Wonder was still prohibited from being by Ehlenas side for most of the day.It was devastating as a parent to see a child go through that, Ehlena's mother Stacy Fry told TIME on Thursday. At school, where it was really most important for her to be accepted, which was key to her development, they essentially said no. Nobody deserves to be treated this way.Ehlenas family made the decision to homeschool her, choosing not to separate her from Wonder, and then filed a federal complaint against  the Napoleon School District and the Jackson County Intermediate School District. A fter several legal back and forths, the case landed before the Supreme Court. The nations highest court sided with Ehlena in a  on Wednesday that ultimately streamlines discrimination cases in federal court and allows the Fry family to sue for violations of the Americans with Disabilities Act.Its our hope that this will set the precedent thats needed to tear down the barriers, Stacy Fry said. We feel that this really is a victory for our family and all the families with children of differing abilities. For us, it really means that we did the right thing. It was not in vain. We had a bigger purpose.Neither school district returned requests for comment. Stacy Fry said  Ehlena no longer needs the help of Wonder, 9, who is retired from his service and spends his days as the girls companion. The girl's mother credits Wonder with teaching her daughter everything she needs to complete tasks on her own.Hes a companion. Hes her sidekick. Hes that constant reassurance, she said. Hes given her the confidence to navigate her environment more independently. Socially and emotionally, he has given her so much confidence to do the things that she wasnt previously able to do. He was that bridge. told conservative activists Friday that he planned to "do something" about unfair press coverage, the White House broke with tradition by limiting access to the daily briefing by Reporters for CNN, Politico, the New York Times and other outlets were barred from entry to an off-camera but usually on-the-record briefing, called a gaggle, in Spicer's office. The daily briefing is normally open to all credentialed reporters when the President is not traveling, whether the event happens on-camera in the White House Briefing Room or off-camera elsewhere.The White House Correspondents' Association, a group that represents credentialed reporters, promptly denounced the move. "The WHCA board is protesting strongly against how today's gaggle is being handled by the White House," said board president Jeff Mason of Reuters. "We encourage the organizations that were allowed in to share the material with others in the press corps who were not. The board will be discussing this further with White House staff." and Julie Pace of the Associated Press, emailed these concerns to Spicer prior to the briefing. They both declined to attend Friday's briefing when the concerns of the board were not addressed.Shortly after the briefing was concluded, reporters in attendance transcribed and circulated Spicer's comments to the entire White House press corps. was not a news organization because of opinions often aired by the network that were sharply critical of Obama's policies. At one point that same year, the Treasury Department declined to invite Fox News, but not other networks, to a briefing, prompting complaints from other news organizations. The Obama White House later said the omission of Fox had been made for logistical reasons, and included a Fox reporter in a briefing with the same Treasury official. "This White House has demonstrated our willingness to exclude Fox News from newsmaking interviews, but yesterday we did not," said White House spokesman Josh Earnest . The Obama White House did not restrict news organization access to daily briefings by the Press Secretary.In recent weeks, Trump has made more pointed attacks on news organizations he says have been unfair to him. "A few days ago I called the fake news the enemy of the people. And they are. They are the enemy of the people," he said Friday, in an address to the  in Maryland. "Because they have no sources, they just make 'em up when there are none. I saw one story recently where they said, 'Nine people have confirmed.'" They're no nine people.", dated Feb. 9, reported that nine current and former officials had spoken to the newspaper for a report disclosing that then-National Security Adviser Michael Flynn had been misleading about the content of his conversations with Russian officials after the November election.Days later, President Trump accepted Flynn's resignation. Spicer said the resignation had resulted from "an eroding level of trust" between Flynn and Trump. found that 48% of respondents reported a favorable view of the law, with 42% reporting an unfavorable view. The poll found the largest shift towards favorability among independents, of whom 50% now have a positive view of the law. Kaiser says this is the most popular Obamacare has been in more than 60 of their surveys since 2010.The survey found people in the U.S. are equally divided, however, on whether they want the government to repeal or replace the law. Forty-seven percent of respondents said they wanted a repeal; 48% said lawmakers should not vote to repeal it. Of those who do want repeal, a higher share said they wanted Congress to wait to repeal the law until a replacement plan is put forth.The survey is based on a telephone sample of 1,160 adults ages 18 and older and was conducted between Feb. 13-19, 2017. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.(BEIRUT)  Twin attacks on two Syrian security offices in the central city of Homs Saturday killed at least 32 people, including a senior security official who heads the feared Military Intelligence services, state media and officials reported.An al-Qaida-linked insurgent coalition known as the Levant Liberation Committee claimed responsibility for the attacks, which also left another high-ranking officer seriously wounded. In a statement on their Telegram channel, the group said five attackers stormed the two different security offices. The group said bombs were also detonated at checkpoints outside the buildings just as rescuers were arriving, leading to more casualties.The governor of Homs Province, Talal Barzani, told The Associated Press there were three blasts in total, killing more than 32 people. He said the attackers were wearing suicide belts, which they detonated in the security offices. The two agencies are two kilometers (1.2 miles) apart.Syrian State News Agency SANA said Maj. Gen Hassan Daeboul, head of the local Military Intelligence branch, was killed by one of the suicide bombers.According to state TV and state-affiliated al-Ikhbariya TV, Brigadier Ibrahim Darwish, head of the State Security Branch, was also critically wounded in the attacks.According to Ikhbariya, at least six assailants attacked the two security compounds in Homs' al-Ghouta and al-Mahata neighborhoods, clashing with security officers before at least two of them detonated explosive vests, killing 32 people. It was not clear if there are any civilians among the casualties.The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group said at least 42 security officers were killed in the attacks on the offices of the State Security and the Military Intelligence services.The differing casualty estimates could not be immediately reconciled. Such discrepancies are not uncommon in the immediate aftermath of violence in Syria.The attacks are among the most spectacular perpetrated against security agencies in the six-year old conflict  a coordinated operation against two heavily secured government buildings using a combination of armed assault and suicide bombing. In early days of the conflict, bombings targeting state security institutions were frequent, usually against military intelligence branches in Damascus and other cities. One of the most dramatic attacks came in July 2012, when insurgents detonated explosives inside a high-level crisis meeting in Damascus, killing four top regime officials, including the brother-in-law of President Bashar Assad and the then-defense minister.The Syrian security forces run a vast intelligence network that enjoys great powers and operates independently of the military and with little judicial oversight. Rights groups and Syria monitors hold the various branches responsible for some of the more shadowy crimes committed during the conflict, including mass arrests, torture, extrajudicial killings and firing on protesters.In a February report, the human rights watchdog Amnesty International reported that between 5,000 and 13,000 people were killed in mass hangings in the military's Saydnaya prison in Damascus between 2011 and 2015. It said the detainees were sent to the prison from around the country by the state's four main security branches, including the Military Intelligence.Associated Press writers Albert Aji in Damascus, Syria and Sarah El Deeb in Beirut contributed to this report. telling them the company is "deeply hurting" after allegations of sexual harassment in the workpalce., the company responded with an email that said in part, "Everyone at Uber is deeply hurting after reading Susan Fowler's blog post. What she describes is abhorrent and against everything Uber stands for and believes in."In a blog post published in Feburary, Fowler claims, among other things, that early in her career at Uber her manager propositioned her for sex, and the company refused to take strong action on her behalf.in a busy Kansas bar on Wednesday, killing one Indian man and injuring two others in what witnesses say may have been a racially motivated attack.Srinivas Kuchibhotla, 32,  died in hospital following the shooting in  Austins Bar and Grill in Olathe.  Alok Madasani, 32, and  Ian Grillot, 24,  were both injured but are reportedly in a stable condition.Kuchibhotla  and Madasani were both engineers who worked at the nearby GPS-maker Garmin and had studied in India, the Associated Press Grillot described how he jumped up to pursue the shooter after he thought the gunman was out of bullets.I wasnt really thinking when I did that, Grillot said. It was just, it wasnt right, and I didnt want the gentleman to potentially go after somebody else., at least one witness recalled hearing the shooter yell, Get out of my country! before opening fire.  in Missouri  that he needed a place to hide because he had shot two Middle Eastern men. The suspect reportedly said he believed that he had killed them both.  Kuchibhotla  and Madasani are reportedly not from the Middle East.Police said it was too early to determine whether the shooting was a hate crime, but said local authorities were investigating the incident with the FBI, AP 