usa-today
Avehicle crashed into a crowd of people at an intersection in New Orleans on Saturday night,injuring several people, police say. at an intersection during a parade in New Orleans on Saturday night,injuring about 28 people, police say.New Orleans Police Chief Michael Harrison said one person is in custody and that he is being investigated for driving while intoxicated. Harrison said police do not suspect terrorism.Harrison said that 21 people were hospitalized after the crash, with five victims in guarded condition. Seven others declined to be hospitalized.Jake Chavez said he saw two men and two women who were hit by a pickup truck that apparently turned into the crowd watching the Endymion parade.At least one arrest has been made, according to WWL-TV reporter David Hammer, who was watching the parade nearby. He tweeted a photo of a man being taken away by police.that he was watching the parade when a pickup truck sped through the intersection. He said he heard three crashes then a fourth loud crash, and saw the truck had come to rest against a garbage bin. Several people, including a police officer, were pinned between the truck and the garbage bin or beneath the truck.Aftermath photos of Endymion accident taken from twenty feet away from where the car crashed of front of us. Scary Let us bring the headlines to you every night. Stay current and catch up on the biggest stories of the day. Iconic signs removed from the Trump Taj Mahal casino-hotel in Atlantic City have ended up in the middle of a court fight.
    As a casino tycoon, Donald Trump was no stranger to controversy. Here are a few of the issues that have followed him into his presidential campaign.
    A Philadelphia recycling firm contends it bought the letters T-R-U-M-P from two signs awaiting disposal earlier this month for $250 and now hopes to sell them for more than $100,000, according to a lawsuit filed Friday in Common Pleas Court in Philadelphia.But the firm  Recycling of Urban Materials for Profit, or RUMP  contends its potentially lucrative online auction was canceled after a sign company declared the letters had been sold without authorization.The suit, which both praises the value of PresidentTrump's name and notes his unpopularity in the casino city, seeks a court order to resolve the letters' ownership.The suit says RUMP markets and recycles "architectural artifacts and signage for profits." It names as defendants Eastern Sign Tech and Trump Taj Mahal Associates, both of Atlantic City.According to the suit, two unnamed partners in the recycling firm were driving past the closed casino on Feb. 16 and noticed workers removing "the iconic TRUMP portion of the casino signage."One partner approached a worker "believed to be the foreman of the crew" and offered to buy two sets of letters, both spelling Trump's name, that were lying on the ground.The worker confirmed the partner's belief that the signs were to be disposed of, according to the suit.It adds the worker "recounted how the day before he was transporting a large 'Trump' sign on a truck for disposal, which was greeted throughout his travels in the Atlantic City area by rude gestures and insults."According to the suit, the worker agreed to the sale after calling a supervisor, and the partners "paid in full and arranged for the immediate pickup of the ten letters."Workers remove the Trump name from the sign at the entrance of the former Trump Taj Mahal casino in Atlantic City on Feb. 15."When the guard heard that (the) partners had purchased the letters from the sign company, the guard wished them well, expressing his personal opinion that they had gotten a bargain."The letters were taken to Philadelphia, where the recycling firm "immediately" offered one set for sale on eBay, according to the suit. "Within days, the bidding reached $7,500, with hundreds of individuals bidding or watching the progress of the auction to make later bids."But the suit says Eastern Sign, after learning of the auction, "sought to repurchase the letters, now claiming they were sold without authority." It contends the security guard who had spoken to the partners "now claimed the letters were stolen and sought to involve the local police."The suit notes Trump has "jealously guarded his brand and successfully created a situation where his name or association with his name lends value to what might otherwise be an ordinary project.""Because of how closely guarded the Trump brand is, it is unusual for an item such as this signage to come on the market,"the suit says.A Philadelphia firm has gone to court in a dispute over ownership of signs from the former Trump Taj Mahal casino-hotel.The value of the Atlantic City signs "is further increased by virtue of its association with one of Trump's more notorious business failures."The casino was most recently owned by billionaire investor Carl Icahn, who closed it in October. Icahn acquired it after the bankruptcy of Trump Entertainment Resorts, a firm once owned by the president.It notes a bottle of Scotch autographed by Trump was auctioned after his election for 6,000 British pounds  "more than double the expected price.""In addition to the value lent by the Trump name, these signs are attractive to the collectors of casino memorabilia," the lawsuit adds.The suit argues the operator of the former casino abandoned ownership of the signs "by contracting for the disposal of the letters once they were removed."It argues that if Eastern Sign "cannot deliver title to the ten iconic letters," it should be required to compensate the recycler "for the fair market value (RUMP) could have achieved by properly marketing the iconic letters at private sale or public auction."Let us bring the headlines to you every night. Stay current and catch up on the biggest stories of the day. Muhammad Ali Jr. and his mother, Khalilah Camacho-Ali were pulled aside for questioning at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport on Feb. 7.LOUISVILLE, Ky.  The U.S. Customs and Border Protection confirmed Saturday that it held Muhammad Ali Jr., the son of the late legendary boxer, for questioning in a Florida airport earlier this month, but said Ali Ali Jr., 44, and his mother, Khalilah Camacho-Ali, the second wife of Muhammad Ali, were pulled aside for questioning at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport on Feb. 7 while returning from a speaking engagement in Jamaica, Chris Mancini, a Florida lawyer and friend of the Ali family, told Mancini said the pair were detained because of their Arabic-sounding names, and Ali Jr. was repeatedly asked, "Where did you get your name from?" and "Are you Muslim?"Customs spokesman Daniel Hetlage declined to provide details of the incident, citing policies that protect travelers' privacy, but he wrote in an email that the agency does not discriminate on the basis of religion, race, ethnicity or sexual orientation."We treat all travelers with respect and sensitivity," he said. "Integrity is our cornerstone. We are guided by the highest ethical and moral principles."Reached by phone, Hetlage said it's not uncommon for customs and border protection officers to pull travelers aside after initial passport inspection for a secondary screening, which can consist of additional questions and verification of a traveler's identity. What is asked in these interviews varies depending on the situation, he said, but "we have no interest in questioning anyone for two hours about their religion."Questions about religion can and do sometimes come up, he said, but it isn't something officers  who process more than 1.2 million international travelers daily  routinely ask about.We treat all travelers with respect and sensitivity. Integrity is our cornerstone. We are guided by the highest ethical and moral principles."With the number of Muslims flying in and out internationally every day, the math doesn't even support it," Hetlage said.Ali Jr., who was born in Philadelphia and holds a U.S. passport, told customs officers that he is Muslim, said Mancini, who added that the questions asked of Ali Jr. are indicative of profiling. He also said he and the Ali family are considering filing a federal lawsuit following the incident."To the Ali family, it's crystal clear that this is directly linked to Mr. Trump's efforts to ban Muslims from the United States," Mancini said Friday, referring to President Trump's executive order signed Jan. 27 that barred people from seven predominantly Muslim countries from entering the U.S. for 90 days.The order also halted the refugee program for 120 days and prohibited Syrian refugees from the U.S. indefinitely. A U.S. appeals court has since blocked enforcement of the travel order, upholding an earlier decision by a federal judge in Seattle.Let us bring the headlines to you every night. Stay current and catch up on the biggest stories of the day. President Trump is pictured speaking during a meeting on the Federal budget in the Roosevelt Room of the White House.I will not be attending the White House Correspondents' Association Dinner this year. Please wish everyone well and have a great evening! the president tweeted Saturday evening.I will not be attending the White House Correspondents' Association Dinner this year. Please wish everyone well and have a great evening!The annual event, set for April 29 at the Washington Hilton, is a black-tie scholarship dinner hostedby the The eventhas drawn fire in recentyearsfrom critics who say it has becometoo much of acelebrity fest and that journalists should not be cozying up to the people they cover.The sitting president and first lady traditionally have attended the dinner, along with a high-profile celebrity who acts as host.Trump's decision to skip the dinner comes amid his ongoing feud with the media, which he has described as "the enemy of the American people."This years dinner will go on as planned despite Trumps absence, said Jeff Mason, the correspondents associations president.The WHCA takes note of President Donald Trump's announcement on Twitter that he does not plan to attend the dinner, which has been and will continue to be a celebration of the First Amendment and the important role played by an independent news media in a healthy republic, Mason said in a statement.We look forward to shining a spotlight at the dinner on some of the best political journalism of the past year and recognizing the promising students who represent the next generation of our profession."In 2011, a stone-faced Trump sat silentlyin the audience as President Obama and comedian Seth Meyers ridiculed him from the stage, mocking his performance on A group unhappy with the options for president of France is recruiting a familiar face  Barack Obama.The Obama17 petition aims to gather 1 millionsignatures to convince the former U.S. commander-in-chief to run in the country's presidential election this spring.The movement's website said it wants to coax France out of its "lethargy.""We wish to strike a blow by electing a foreign president at the head of our beautiful country," the website reads. "Barack Obama has completed his second term as president of the United States ... why not hire him as president for France?"The group says Obama has "the best resume in the world for the job," and adds, "it is still possible to vote for a president and not against a candidate."Obama faces one massive hurdle in the race, if he were even interested: He's not a French citizenand therefore couldn't qualify to run.the campaign is definitely a joke, but hopes it could make people think about what could be done differently in French politics.Let us bring the headlines to you every night. Stay current and catch up on the biggest stories of the day. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt suggested Saturday the agency could begin as early as next week the process of rolling back some of the federal regulations put in place by the Obama administration.WASHINGTON  The new head of the Environmental Protection Agency suggested to a gathering of conservative Republicans on Saturday that the agency could begin as early as next week the process ofrolling back some of the federal regulations put in place by the Obama administration."The future aint what it used to be" at the EPA,Scott Pruitt said during an address at the Conservative Political Action Conference, or CPAC.Pruitt, who started at the agency Tuesday,did not specifically indicate what rulesPresident Trump's administration will target immediately. But he cited a controversial clean water rule as an example of a regulation that wenttoo far.The regulation  known as the Waters of the United States Rule andadopted by the Obama administration  expands the definition of waters subject to the jurisdiction of the EPA under the Clean Water Act.Critics charge the rule so broadly expands the federal governments authority that it would be able to regulate ditches and small bodies of water. The EPA finalized the rule in May 2015 but it has been blocked by a federal appeals court pending further legal challenges.Congress voted last year to overturn the rule by invoking a rarely used law known as the Congressional Review Act. But President Obama vetoed that resolution.In his CPAC address, Pruitt, who as Oklahoma attorney general sued the EPA 14 times, said people who want to eliminate the agency are "justified" for such attitudes because of the regulatory overreach by the Obama administration."People across this country look at the EPA like they look at the IRS," he said. "I hope to be able to change that."Under his leadership, Pruitt said, the EPA would pay close attention to the rule-making process to ensureany new rules do not go beyond what is allowed under federal law.Executive agencies only have the power that Congress has given them, he said. They cant make it up as they go. They cant fill in the blank.Were going to provide certainty by living within the framework that Congress has passed, he said. Obama-era regulations that dontfit within that framework will be rolled back,Pruitt added.Pruitt also promised to work with the states as partners, not adversaries on issues such as clean air and water.Let us bring the headlines to you every night. Stay current and catch up on the biggest stories of the day. A Pennsylvania woman died last year from bedbug bite complications. The insects had invaded the care facility where she was housed.A Pennsylvania woman died last year from bedbug bite complications. The insects had invaded the care facility where she was housed.Last February, West Manheim Township Police entered the southern Pennsylvania homeandnoticed the bed bugs. They crawled on walls and along ledges. Theyscurried on the bed sheets andpillow where an elderly woman slept in a first-floor room. She told officers she was blind, but could "feel them crawling." Sometimes, she added, they bit her, too.Paramedics, police said, would later check on that woman, but did not notice any visible injuries. Police said another woman, 96-year-old Mary Stoner,was staying at the home. Two weeks after the visit, Stoner was dead.An autopsy determined her cause of death was from "complications of sepsis followed by bed bug infestation," according to charging documents.Stoner's familymoved her out of Butler's home on Feb. 3, 2016,after noticing her health worsen. During previous visits, Stoner's familytold police she was in good health. On Feb. 6, Stoner was brought to the emergency room, where doctors found sores on her skin. Staffmembers wereunder the opinion the woman'sinfection was a result of bed bug bites.Stoner was discharged from the hospital about a week later, only to be readmitted again. Doctors said she had pneumonia.The women, police said, stayed with Butler at herhome. Butler provided food, shelter, clothing as well as personal and health care. Both women paid for the care services, documents state.The site of the former Luckenbaugh Personal Care Home in the 2000 block of Baltimore Pike, Saturday, Feb. 25, 2017.In talking with police prior to Stoner's death, Butler told them she had been trying to get rid of the bed bugs since September 2015 and had used store-bought supplies. She said she could not afford an exterminator and blamed Stoner for bringing in the bugs, documents state.Butler,who was charged last week, had taken Stoner to her family doctor in January because Stoner had been scratching her neck and been sick. Butler did not mention bed bugs during the doctor's appointment, police said, and Stoner didn't mention them either.In the coming weeks, Butler said she noticed no change in Stoner's condition. But police said "evidence later indicated that the victim's condition would have been clearly visible and obvious that serious medical attention was required."Stoner received no further medical treatment until her family took her to York Hospital. In the week after Stoner's death, police said they searched Butler's home and found bed bugs in various stages of their life cycle.Let us bring the headlines to you every night. Stay current and catch up on the biggest stories of the day. Democrats choose Perez to lead them out of a political wilderness defined by heavy losses over the past eight yearsATLANTA  Democrats chose President Obamas former Labor secretary, Tom Perez, as the person to lead them out of a political wilderness of heavy losses at every level of government over the past eight yearsand amid tensions between moderates and progressives about how to rebuild the party after Hillary Clinton's unexpected presidential loss to Donald Trump.Perezs election as the next Democratic National Committee chair is a reflection of the partys leftward tug all of the contestants packaged themselves as progressives eager to tangle with Trump on voting and civil rights and economic policiesfavoring the wealthy.Perez, the party'sfirst Latino leader, won with 235 votesin a second round of balloting after coming one vote short of a majority in the initial round. His opponent, Rep. Keith Ellison, co-chairman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, received 200 votes. A group of Ellison supportersreacted angrily at the tally and stormed out chanting no big money. Party for the people.Within moments, Perez announced he would make Ellison a deputy chair as the room erupted in applause. Ellison urged everyone to support Perez. If we waste even a moment going at it over who supported whom we are not going to be standing up for those people, he said, referring to struggling Americans.A former Department of Justice civil rights lawyer, Perez emphasized his rsumfighting against former Sheriff Joe Arpaio in Arizona on immigration issues, stoppingvoter ID lawsand taking on Wall Street in the aftermath of the foreclosure crisis.Yet he was also the more establishment-alignedalternative in what essentially became a two-way race in the final stretch. Former Vice President Joe Biden and former Attorney General Eric Holder endorsed Perez. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders and other progressive leaders, including Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., favorited Ellison.Ellison's confrontational style raised some concerns about his ability to connect with white working-class voters in the Rust Belt states that flipped to Trump in 2016. Pennsylvania, for example, hadnt voted for a Republican president since 1988. ButEllison is also a powerful speaker who could have excitedthe party's progressive base.Former President Obama congratulated Perez on his win and his choice of Ellison as deputy. "What unites our party is a belief in opportunity  the idea that however you started out, whatever you look like, or whomever you love, America is the place where you can make it if you try," he said in a statement.Rep. Keith Ellison, D-Minn, listens as he is introduced during the general session of the Democratic National Committee's winter meeting in Atlanta on Feb. 25, 2017.The greatest challenges facing Perez will be uniting Democrats and rebuilding aparty infrastructurein need ofmajoroverhaul.Democrats not only lost the White House but alsoboth chambers of Congress in the past couple elections. At the state level, the party now controls the legislature in just 13 states, compared to 32 controlled by Republicans amid widespread complaints the DNC focused its resources on presidential races at the expense of local party building."We are suffering from a crisis of confidence, a crisis of relevance. We need a chair who can not only take the fight to Donald Trump ... We also need a chair who can lead turnaround and change the culture of the Democratic Party and the DNC," Perezsaid in a final appeal to DNC members,emphasizing the importance of "working to elect from the school board to the Senate."Party officials and keynote speakers made no attempt to conceal tensions between some Perez and Ellison supporters. Theres no secret that theres division, even in this camp, said Rev. Bernice King, the daughter of Martin Luther King, Jr. who addressed the crowd ahead of the vote. We came here in different ships and boats but were all in the same boat now, she said. If we dont come together as brothers and sisters, were going to perish as fools."Perez consolidated supportin the final moments of the race when other candidates, including South Bend, Ind., mayor Pete Buttigieg,a dark horse who drew significant attention,dropped out.Perez's challenge now will bepreventing his party from making the mistakes Republicans did in responding to their own grassroots rebellion. Just as the Tea Party pulled the GOP further to the right, there is a progressive pullto the left after a heated primary battle between Clinton and Sanders, who frequently drew connections between herand Wall Street interests.Bernie did not get a fair shake from the DNC leadership, said Brian Ellison, a Detroit pastor andone of Keith Ellisons brothers, and people are very upset about that to this day.But even before Perez announced Keith Ellison as his deputy, Ellison made an appeal for unity. "Weve gotta walk out ofhere with unity not just between the candidates but between party members, he said. "Trump is right outside that door  and not just Trump but Trumpism."You are the ones who can bring comfort to peoplefearing a ban or a wall or losing their Social Security," Ellison added. "The American peopleneed us in this moment."Many wearing green Ellison shirts expressed similar sentiments.Still some, including Ohio state senator Nina Turner, warned before the vote that if Congressman Ellison is not elected theres lots of people who are prepared to walk.The divide between progressive and more moderate members was also on display in a debate over an amendment about DNC rules governing acceptance of corporate money that was voted down, with some members chanting money out of politics.The question going forward is whether the party divide is significant to rival the Tea Party. In the first couple of election cycles, Tea Party Republicans who won their primarieswent on to lose seats to Democrats in the general election.More immediately, themajor challenge for Perez is fundraising. The Republican National Committee raised a record $19.8 million in January. While the Democratic Partys traditional grassroots machine, labor unions, fight for survival, Republicans have built a powerhouse of outside groups like the Koch Brothers-funded Americans for Prosperity that is bolstering local GOP officials from county commissioner to governor.Weve got a tremendous wind at our back. Not only do we hold large majorities but the enthusiasm Im seeing among the grassroots among state and county committee people and this new insurgence of Trump supporters is like nothing Ive ever seen, said Val DiGiorgio, chair of the Pennsylvania Republican Party.Democrats expectthe new chair to reinvigorate local parties whocomplainnational outside groups, like Obamas Organizing for Action, draintalent and resources resulting in a disproportionate share of resources going to presidential candidates.The DNC needs an overall culture change to get out of the Washington-centered model they have, said Michigan chair Brandon Dillon.Ohio chair David Pepper added:The basic capacity for state parties to do what state parties should be doing has really eroded over the past decade."The forum also spotlighted a number of potential rising stars in the Democratic Party. California Attorney General Xavier Becerra, who's expected to lead many of the legal battles against the new administration, delivered the keynote address.Boston Mayor Marty Walsh and former Missouri Secretary of State Jason Kander, who narrowly lost his 2016 Senate race, also spoke. Kander has started a new national voting rights organization.Theres something happening in this country right now, Kander said. This is a level of activism most of us have not seen in our lifetimes, he said. We may be living in the nightmare that is the Trump presidency, but we are awake, we are on our feet and we are marching forward."Buttigieg may have been the break-out star after withdrawing his nomination. In his speech, he called for healing even with Trump voters. The world is not divided into good people and bad people. Every one of us can and will do good things and bad things every day, he said.Leaders matter because of what they bring out in the rest of us, Buttigieg added. "Right now we have leaders who bring out the worst in us. They call on the darkest things within us, he said, calling on Democrats to become happy warriors.Let us bring the headlines to you every night. Stay current and catch up on the biggest stories of the day. Parents across the country are reporting a shortage of glue in stores and many are naming the simple, do-it-yourself "slime" as the culprit.The main ingredient in slime  an undeniably fun, droopy, pliable substance made in a bowl is white glue such as the kind made by Elmer's. Recipes found on  are blaming the craze on Pinterest and othersocial media, which are spreading recipes with different colors and purposes. Think "Parents are posting news of shortages on Twitter. A store in Kansascouldn't keep glue on shelves, Help!Theres a glue shortage in NJ!Im a SpEd teacher working on a bottle cap mural w/my kiddos & cant find  Elmer's glue sales improved during the second of half of 2016 because of the trend. An effort to reach Elmer's was not immediately returned. However, a company spokeswoman told CNBC that Elmer's is bolstering production. The Elmer's Let us bring the headlines to you every night. Stay current and catch up on the biggest stories of the day. LIMON - If you fly in or out of Denver soon, you might spot what were pretty sure is the states largest political sign.
Frustrated at some of the negativity coming from opponents of President Trump, Colorado rancher Doug Koehn hopped on his plow and carved the word TRUMP in big block letters into his field.
The letters are 800 feet wide and approximately 800 feet long, Koehn said. A mile-long Trump.
You cant really read it from ground level. The first time Koehn saw the whole thing in one frame was when 9NEWS showed up with a drone to see it.It looks really nice, Koehn said while staring at the drones video feed, joking that he was relieved he didnt make a spelling error.Some farmers have equipment that can be programmed to use GPS systems to precisely plow a field. This effort was decidedly low-tech by comparison. I have an old tractor, it dont do that, Koehn said. My son come out and stepped it off and I just drove the tractor to wherever he was standing. Koehn says hes never voted before last years election, when he was inspired to cast a ballot for Trump. He said hes embarrassed that Colorado voted for Hillary Clinton last year and wanted to show that Trump has healthy support in Colorados rural eastern plains.He was also inspired by his previous experience flying in and out of Denver International Airport, which ranks as one of the 20 busiest airports in the world.
Hes been able to spot the house on his ranch land from the plane before. He hopes his sign will reach travelers with routes that run to the East of Denver.Let us bring the headlines to you every night. Stay current and catch up on the biggest stories of the day. 